though lydia s short letter to mrs.
my dear, replied her husband, i have two small favours to request.
bennet treated the matter differently.
wickham walked into the room, elizabeth felt that she had neither been seeing him before, nor thinking of him since, with the smallest degree of unreasonable admiration.
elizabeth could not refuse, though she foresaw little pleasure in the visit.
another time, lizzy, said her mother, i would not dance with him, if i were you.
in a few minutes he approached the table where she was sitting with kitty; and, while pretending to admire her work, said in a whisper, go to your father; he wants you in the library.
the party seemed so well selected, so suitable one with the other.
but it was not till the evening of the dance at netherfield that i had any apprehension of his feeling a serious attachment.
as he said this she could easily see that he had no doubt of a favourable answer.
her daughter, miss de bourgh, will have a very large fortune, and it is believed that she and her cousin will unite the two estates.
no, really, replied elizabeth; i think there cannot be too little said on the subject.
from what i can collect, he left derbyshire only one day after ourselves, and came to town with the resolution of hunting for them.
with a strong prejudice against everything he might say, she began his account of what had happened at netherfield.
after a slight preparation for good news, the letter was read aloud.
my dear jane, i am in such a flutter, that i am sure i can t write; so i will dictate, and you write for me.
but it ended in nothing, and i will not be sent on a fool s errand again.
do you pay no regard to the wishes of his friends to his tacit engagement with miss de bourgh?
collins allowed him to speak, replied with an air of distant civility.
she will be down in a moment, i dare say.
darcy has not authorized me to make his communication public.
my dear lizzy, do not give way to such feelings as these.
wickham, indeed, had gone to her on their first arrival in london; and had she been able to receive them into her house, they would have taken up their abode with her.
darcy should have delivered his sentiments in a manner so little suited to recommend them; but still more was she grieved for the unhappiness which her sister s refusal must have given him.
they could have been understood only by her mother, who might have felt nearly the same.
bingley; but i am sure it will be too much for kitty.
when (to take the present book only) mr.
and was denny convinced that wickham would not marry?
you cannot have been always at longbourn.
but elizabeth, who had not the least inclination to remain with them, laughingly answered, no, no; stay where you are.
bennet was not imagined to be very rich, he would have been able to do something for him, and his situation must have been benefited by marriage.
you may imagine what i felt and how i acted.
i am only resolved to act in that manner, which will, in my own opinion, constitute my happiness, without reference to you, or to any person so wholly unconnected with me.
what an agreeable man sir william is, mr.
my feelings in every respect forbid it.
the surprise of the rest of the family, on hearing who their visitor had been, was very great: but they obligingly satisfied it with the same kind of supposition which had appeased mrs.
let them triumph over us at a distance, and be satisfied.
thank you, said lydia; for if you did, i should certainly tell you all, and then wickham would be so angry.
it is difficult, indeed it is distressing.
you must feel it; and the usual satisfaction of preaching patience to a sufferer is denied me, because you have always so much.
it was the second week in may, in which the three young ladies set out together from gracechurch street for the town of , in hertfordshire; and, as they drew near the appointed inn where mr.
dearest lizzy, i hardly know what i would write, but i have bad news for you, and it cannot be delayed.
the astonishment of the ladies was just what he wished that of mrs.
replied kitty, it looks just like that man that used to be with him before.
pride relates more to our opinion of ourselves; vanity to what we would have others think of us.
i suppose you have heard of it; indeed, you must have seen it in the papers.
but when you have had time to think it all over, i hope you will be satisfied with what i have done.
nothing could be more delightful!
this matter may be considered, therefore, as finally settled.
there was no help for it, however.
bennet; and it is happy for you that you possess the talent of flattering with delicacy.
gardiner, who, with two or three other gentlemen from the house, was engaged by the river; and had left him only on learning that the ladies of the family intended a visit to georgiana that morning.
we dressed up chamberlayne in woman s clothes, on purpose to pass for a lady, only think what fun!
but their father, though very laconic in his expressions of pleasure, was really glad to see them; he had felt their importance in the family circle.
she heard the carriage drive away as she proceeded upstairs.
perhaps she is full young to be much in company.
between elizabeth and charlotte there was a restraint which kept them mutually silent on the subject; and elizabeth felt persuaded that no real confidence could ever subsist between them again.
you are a very strange creature by way of a friend!
everybody was surprised; and darcy, after looking at her for a moment, turned silently away.
but that expression of violently in love is so hackneyed, so doubtful, so indefinite, that it gives me very little idea.
she had not herself forgotten to feel that the marriage of her sister must bring them more frequently together.
long said so too, for i asked her whether you did not.
i must have employment and society.
all this was acknowledged to mrs.
the moral will be perfectly fair.
let us hope, therefore, that her being there may teach her her own insignificance.
yet it is hard, she sometimes thought, that this poor man cannot come to a house, which he has legally hired, without raising all this speculation!
they have some of the finest woods in the country.
this invaluable friend was a very young woman, and very lately married.
kitty, who took all these threats in a serious light, began to cry.
there was one part, especially the opening of it, which i should dread your having the power of reading again.
bennet, that is exactly what i could most wish for.
darcy might have done as well.
yes; but when questioned by him, denny denied knowing anything of their plan, and would not give his real opinion about it.
darcy about it, if you had rather not.
you are not going to introduce yourself to mr.
easter was approaching, and the week preceding it was to bring an addition to the family at rosings, which in so small a circle must be important.
when they had gained their own room, jane, taking out her letter, said, this is from caroline bingley: what it contains has surprised me a good deal.
bingley, who came from the dance for a few minutes to press his friend to join it.
her aunt now called her to look at a picture.
there is a mixture of servility and self-importance in his letter which promises well.
if i should ever go to brighton, i would behave better than lydia.
perhaps there was some truth in this; though i doubt whether his reserve, or anybody s reserve can be answerable for the event.
our poor mother is sadly grieved.
i pity you, miss eliza, for this discovery of your favourite s guilt; but really, considering his descent, one could not expect much better.
as much as i ever wish to be, cried elizabeth, warmly.
pray tell your sister that i long to see her.
elizabeth blushed and blushed again with shame and vexation.
but tell me, what did you come down to netherfield for?
it was the last of the regiment s stay in meryton, and all the young ladies in the neighbourhood were drooping apace.
he is as fine a fellow, said mr.
it was more than civil; it was really attentive; and there was no necessity for such attention.
who have often disdained the generous candour of my sister, and gratified my vanity in useless or blameless distrust.
collins you have been a daily witness of; and altogether i trust it does not appear that your friend has drawn an unfortunate but on this point it will be as well to be silent.
you know not, you can scarcely conceive, how they have tortured me; though it was some time, i confess, before i was reasonable enough to allow their justice.
but, my dear, your father cannot spare the horses, i am sure.
the period of expectation was now doubled.
i had hoped that our sentiments coincided in every particular, but i must so far differ from you as to think our two youngest daughters uncommonly foolish.
i am talking of possibilities, charles.
my dearest sister, now be, be serious.
darcy, cried a young lucas, who came with his sisters, i should not care how proud i was.
he bore it with noble indifference; and she would have imagined that bingley had received his sanction to be happy, had she not seen his eyes likewise turned towards mr.
darcy, with such a smile over the face, as she remembered to have sometimes seen, when he looked at her.
it settled the matter; and they pursued the accustomed circuit; which brought them again, after some time, in a descent among hanging woods, to the edge of the water, and one of its narrowest parts.
the upstart pretensions of a young woman without family, connections, or fortune!
bennet was likely to live; and sir william gave it as his decided opinion, that whenever mr.
bingley, to assure him how happy he would make them, by eating a family dinner with them at any time, without the ceremony of a formal invitation.
it was only said, lately, george wickham, esq., to miss lydia bennet, without there being a syllable said of her father, or the place where she lived, or anything.
gardiner looked at her niece with a smile, but elizabeth could not return it.
i am astonished, my dear, said mrs.
on the following morning he hastened to rosings to pay his respects.
i should be ashamed of having one that was only entailed on me.
elizabeth coloured, and said, a little.
they repulsed every attempt of mrs.
elizabeth walked on in quest of the only face whose features would be known to her.
collins s pretty friend had, moreover, caught his fancy very much.
the first time of my ever seeing him in hertfordshire, you must know, was at a ball and at this ball, what do you think he did?
elizabeth was now most heartily sorry that she had, from the distress of the moment, been led to make mr.
my resolution of thanking you for your kindness to lydia had certainly great effect.
what do you keep winking at me for?
the tête-à-tête surprised them.
thank you but i always mend my own.
miss austen, too, drew back when the white frost touched her shoes; but i think she would have made a pretty good journey even in a black one.
while i can have my mornings to myself, said she, it is enough.
not that i am afraid of myself, but i dread other people s remarks.
gardiner, there is no absolute proof that they are not gone to scotland.
when they were gone, elizabeth, as if intending to exasperate herself as much as possible against mr.
indeed, jane, you ought to believe me.
he meant to provide for me amply, and thought he had done it; but when the living fell, it was given elsewhere.
can it be possible that he will marry her?
collins, for she vows she will not have him; and if you do not make haste he will change his mind and not have her.
bingley and his eldest sister, to observe the game.
lady catherine, i believe, did a great deal to it when mr.
the first pleasing earnest of their welcome.
darcy called on his sister to join him in expressing their wish of seeing mr.
after the first fortnight or three weeks of her absence, health, good-humour, and cheerfulness began to reappear at longbourn.
well, all i know is, that it will be abominably rude if you do not wait on him.
i will take care of myself, and of mr.
it will pass away soon enough.
we were born in the same parish, within the same park; the greatest part of our youth was passed together: inmates of the same house, sharing the same amusements, objects of the same parental care.
you must learn some of my philosophy.
he left netherfield for london on the day following, as you, i am certain, remember, with the design of soon returning.
poor lydia s situation must, at best, be bad enough; but that it was no worse, she had need to be thankful.
elizabeth could not but smile at such a conclusion of such a beginning; but mrs.
i should take him, even on my slight acquaintance, to be an ill-tempered man.
and that made the men suspect something, and then they soon found out what was the matter.
they were off saturday night about twelve, as is conjectured, but were not missed till yesterday morning at eight.
of that kind of love which i suppose him to have felt.
well, if they can be easy with an estate that is not lawfully their own, so much the better.
she opened the door, and met maria in the landing-place, who, breathless with agitation, cried out, in conversation with the ladies oh, my dear eliza!
collins, who continued most perseveringly by her side; and though he could not prevail with her to dance with him again, put it out of her power to dance with others.
after sitting a few minutes, they were all sent to one of the windows to admire the view, mr.
she was a little revived, however, by his bringing back his coffee-cup himself; and she seized the opportunity of saying, is your sister at pemberley still?
the wisest and best of men, nay, the wisest and best of their actions, may be rendered ridiculous by a person whose first object in life is a joke.
you may as well call it impertinence at once.
robinson: did not i mention it to you?
had they no apprehension of anything before the elopement took place?
catherine, weak-spirited, irritable, and completely under lydia s guidance, had been always affronted by their advice; and lydia, self-willed and careless, would scarcely give them a hearing.
wickham walked with the young ladies to the door of mr.
any place would do of about three or four hundred a year; but, however, do not speak to mr.
for my own part, she rejoined, i must confess that i never could see any beauty in her.
many of my acquaintance are already there for the winter: i wish i could hear that you, my dearest friend, had any intention of making one in the crowd, but of that i despair.
in spite of this amendment, however, she requested to have a note sent to longbourn, desiring her mother to visit jane, and form her own judgment of her situation.
you have sense, and we all expect you to use it.
i am truly glad, dearest lizzy, that you have been spared something of these distressing scenes; but now, as the first shock is over, shall i own that i long for your return?
kitty and lydia take his defection much more to heart than i do.
no, lizzy, let me once in my life feel how much i have been to blame.
it was lady catherine de bourgh.
but i have an aunt, too, who must not be longer neglected.
i am afraid you do not like your pen.
she wrote cheerfully, seemed surrounded with comforts, and mentioned nothing which she could not praise.
besides, there was truth in his looks.
my manners must have been in fault, but not intentionally, i assure you.
i could hardly help laughing aloud sometimes.
they were not the only objects of mr.
it will save me a world of trouble and economy.
so much ease, with such perfect good breeding!
i talked to her repeatedly in the most serious manner, representing to her the wickedness of what she had done, and all the unhappiness she had brought on her family.
she would not betray her trust, i suppose, without bribery and corruption, for she really did know where her friend was to be found.
ring the bell, kitty, for hill.
you never see a fault in anybody.
elizabeth tried to join in her father s pleasantry, but could only force one most reluctant smile.
she likes to have the distinction of rank preserved.
as a child i was taught what was right, but i was not taught to correct my temper.
from the drawing-room they could distinguish nothing in the lane, and were indebted to mr.
his wife represented to him how absolutely necessary such an attention would be from all the neighbouring gentlemen, on his returning to netherfield.
if your master would marry, you might see more of him.
after an affectionate parting between the friends, elizabeth was attended to the carriage by mr.
i am much obliged to your ladyship for your kind invitation, replied elizabeth; but it is not in my power to accept it.
i always say that nothing is to be done in education without steady and regular instruction, and nobody but a governess can give it.
she looked at her father to entreat his interference, lest mary should be singing all night.
the account of his connection with the pemberley family was exactly what he had related himself; and the kindness of the late mr.
with an air of indifference, he soon afterwards added, how long did you say that he was at rosings?
forgive me for having taken up so much of your time, and accept my best wishes for your health and happiness.
to be sure, london was rather thin, but, however, the little theatre was open.
you do not know what he really is; then pray do not pain me by speaking of him in such terms.
he thought too well of himself to comprehend on what motive his cousin could refuse him; and though his pride was hurt, he suffered in no other way.
philips a very attentive listener, whose opinion of his consequence increased with what she heard, and who was resolving to retail it all among her neighbours as soon as she could.
darcy to marry your daughter; but would my giving you the wished-for promise make their marriage at all more probable?
she would not listen, therefore, to her daughter s proposal of being carried home; neither did the apothecary, who arrived about the same time, think it at all advisable.
darcy; or at least, by the predominance of virtue, atone for those casual errors, under which she would endeavour to class what mr.
here they were interrupted by lady catherine, who called out to know what they were talking of.
bennet, with great politeness and cordiality, said how happy they should be to see him at longbourn again, whenever his other engagements might allow him to visit them.
only let me assure you, my dear miss elizabeth, that i can from my heart most cordially wish you equal felicity in marriage.
such a countenance, such manners, and so extremely accomplished for her age!
their reception at home was most kind.
collins, to be sure, was neither sensible nor agreeable: his society was irksome, and his attachment to her must be imaginary.
bennet could hardly comprehend it.
that he should have been in love with her for so many months!
collins knew not what to make of him.
in marrying your nephew, i should not consider myself as quitting that sphere.
he shall be mercenary, and she shall be foolish.
follies and nonsense, whims and inconsistencies, do divert me, i own, and i laugh at them whenever i can.
sometimes she could fancy that he talked less than on former occasions, and once or twice pleased herself with the notion that, as he looked at her, he was trying to trace a resemblance.
do you suppose them to be in london?
they owed the restoration of lydia, her character, everything to him.
darcy himself need not disdain, and respectability which he will probably never reach.
elizabeth, as she affectionately embraced her, whilst tears filled the eyes of both, lost not a moment in asking whether anything had been heard of the fugitives.
collins as the wisest thing she ever did.
at any rate, she cannot grow many degrees worse, without authorizing us to lock her up for the rest of her life.
i grieve to find, however, that colonel f.
i do not blame jane, she continued, for jane would have got mr.
she must own that she was tired of great houses: after going over so many, she really had no pleasure in fine carpets or satin curtains.
no, indeed, i felt nothing but surprise.
could there be finer symptoms?
sir william had been delighted with him.
this is the last time i shall ever remember it myself.
collins invited them to take a stroll in the garden, which was large and well laid out, and to the cultivation of which he attended himself.
jane s is nothing to it nothing at all.
they were forced to conclude, that he had no pleasing intelligence to send; but even of that they would have been glad to be certain.
reynolds then directed their attention to one of miss darcy, drawn when she was only eight years old.
may i ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment, or are the result of previous study?
she had got rid of two of the secrets which had weighed on her for a fortnight, and was certain of a willing listener in jane, whenever she might wish to talk again of either.
every kind of pride must revolt from the connection.
shall we ask your cousin the reason of this?
but i pity her, because she must feel that she has been acting wrong, and because i am very sure that anxiety for her brother is the cause of it.
we may as well wait, perhaps, till the circumstance occurs, before we discuss the discretion of his behaviour thereupon.
i have suspected it some time, but i am now convinced.
she listened most attentively to all that passed between them, and gloried in every expression, every sentence of her uncle, which marked his intelligence, his taste, or his good manners.
collins, cried elizabeth, with some warmth, you puzzle me exceedingly.
he simpers, and smirks, and makes love to us all.
i am happier even than jane; she only smiles, i laugh.
but you see that jane, said her aunt, does not think so ill of wickham, as to believe him capable of the attempt.
your sweetness and disinterestedness are really angelic; i do not know what to say to you.
upon my word, sir, cried elizabeth, your hope is rather an extraordinary one after my declaration.
their lodgings were not long a secret, and at length they began to know the officers themselves.
if you will only tell me what sort of girl miss king is, i shall know what to think.
in town, i believe, he chiefly lived, but his studying the law was a mere pretence; and being now free from all restraint, his life was a life of idleness and dissipation.
she dreaded seeing wickham again, and was resolved to avoid it as long as possible.
what did you say of me that i did not deserve?
bennet assured her that they never sat there after dinner; and then added, may i take the liberty of asking your ladyship whether you left mr.
he was storing his memory with anecdotes and noble names.
darcy, the superior in consequence, to begin the acquaintance.
lizzy, my dear, run down to your father, and ask him how much he will give her.
elizabeth hoped she had silenced him; but he soon afterwards said, i was surprised to see darcy in town last month.
the present always occupies you in such scenes does it?
elizabeth impatiently caught it from his hand.
your mother insists upon your accepting it.
is this, thought elizabeth, meant for me?
and we all know that wickham has every charm of person and address that can captivate a woman.
i did not know before, continued bingley, immediately, that you were a studier of character.
by nature inoffensive, friendly, and obliging, his presentation at st.
she had already learnt that lady catherine was still in the country.
i ought not to have said a word about it.
to know that her daughter would be married was enough.
some time hence it will be all found out, and then we may laugh at their stupidity in not knowing it before.
i do assure you that i am not one of those young ladies (if such young ladies there are) who are so daring as to risk their happiness on the chance of being asked a second time.
but everybody is to judge for themselves, and the lucases are a very good sort of girls, i assure you.
elizabeth took an opportunity of thanking her.
read it aloud, said their father, for i hardly know myself what it is about.
bennet sent them word that they could not possibly have the carriage before tuesday; and in her postscript it was added, that if mr.
thank you, sir, but a less agreeable man would satisfy me.
jane instantly gave a look at elizabeth which spoke her distress at such premeditation, and her entreaty that she would not give in to it.
they were ignorant, idle, and vain.
well, well, i only hope it will last.
collins made his declaration in form.
yes, vanity is a weakness indeed.
perhaps it will be as well if you discourage his coming here so very often.
painful recollections will intrude, which cannot, which ought not to be repelled.
elizabeth smiled at the recollection of all that she had heard of its inhabitants.
almost as soon as i entered the house i singled you out as the companion of my future life.
with such kind of histories of their parties and good jokes did lydia, assisted by kitty s hints and additions, endeavour to amuse her companions all the way to longbourn.
are not you curious to hear how it was managed?
darcy, and her resolution to be civil to him only as mr.
while she spoke, an involuntary glance showed her darcy with a heightened complexion, earnestly looking at her, and his sister overcome with confusion, and unable to lift up her eyes.
but if you will listen to his letter, you may, perhaps, be a little softened by his manner of expressing himself.
gracechurch street, my dear niece, i have just received your letter, and shall devote this whole morning to answering it, as i foresee that a little writing will not comprise what i have to tell you.
but it is fortunate, thought she, that i have something to wish for.
darcy, to be treating his father s favourite in such a manner, one whom his father had promised to provide for.
she dared not even mention that gentleman.
darcy came so often to the parsonage it was more difficult to understand.
you wish to think all the world respectable, and are hurt if i speak ill of anybody.
i do not know who is good enough for him.
jenkinson expressed her fears of miss de bourgh s being too hot or too cold, or having too much or too little light.
lady catherine rose also, and they turned back.
bingley, and takes a prodigious deal of care of him.
lydia s intention of walking to meryton was not forgotten: every sister except mary agreed to go with her; and mr.
some people call him proud; but i am sure i never saw anything of it.
at length darcy spoke, and in a constrained manner said, mr.
collins first came to hunsford.
addison and in miss austen there is, though a restrained and well-mannered, an insatiable and ruthless delight in roasting and cutting up a fool.
very few days passed in which mr.
elizabeth did not quit her room for a moment, nor were the other ladies often absent; the gentlemen being out, they had in fact nothing to do elsewhere.
it does not often happen that the interference of friends will persuade a young man of independent fortune to think no more of a girl whom he was violently in love with only a few days before.
jenkinson was chiefly employed in watching how little miss de bourgh ate, pressing her to try some other dish and fearing she was indisposed.
such very superior dancing is not often seen.
you must not disappoint your father.
into one house in this neighbourhood they shall never have admittance.
elizabeth tried to be diverted by them; but all sense of pleasure was lost in shame.
wherever you and jane are known, you must be respected and valued; and you will not appear to less advantage for having a couple of or i may say, three very silly sisters.
in this danger kitty is also comprehended.
he had ruined for a while every hope of happiness for the most affectionate, generous heart in the world; and no one could say how lasting an evil he might have inflicted.
i often tell my other girls they are nothing to her.
darcy felt their rudeness, and immediately said, this walk is not wide enough for our party.
the walk being here less sheltered than on the other side, allowed them to see him before they met.
the gentlemen pronounced him to be a fine figure of a man, the ladies declared he was much handsomer than mr.
the promised letter of thanks from mr.
and so, it is quite certain he is coming?
his manners are very different from his cousin s.
in society so superior to what she had generally known, her improvement was great.
darcy took her place by her niece, and they walked on together.
it is not likely that money should be very abundant on either side; and it might strike them that they could be more economically, though less expeditiously, married in london, than in scotland.
each felt for the other, and of course for themselves; and their mother talked on of her dislike of mr.
my dear jane, exclaimed elizabeth, you are too good.
upon my word, caroline, i should think it more possible to get pemberley by purchase than by imitation.
to pemberley, therefore, they were to go.
when jane and elizabeth were alone, the former, who had been cautious in her praise of mr.
reynolds could interest her on no other point.
those who do not complain are never pitied.
only think of that, my dear: he actually danced with her twice; and she was the only creature in the room that he asked a second time.
bennet regretted that their stay would be so short; and she made the most of the time by visiting about with her daughter, and having very frequent parties at home.
she can have no idea of the pain she gives me by her continual reflections on him.
darcy looked a little ashamed of his aunt s ill-breeding, and made no answer.
but people themselves alter so much, that there is something new to be observed in them for ever.
it was a handsome modern building, well situated on rising ground.
there is a lady, it seems, a mrs.
smiles decked the face of mrs.
in vain did elizabeth attempt to make her reasonable, and jane to make her resigned.
darcy half so well as i do my dear wickham, you must be very happy.
bingley, it is very hard to have her taken away from me.
gardiner did not attempt to conceal these particulars from the longbourn family; jane heard them with horror.
but there are two things that i want very much to know: one is, how much money your uncle has laid down to bring it about; and the other, how i am ever to pay him.
if i have, i shall be the last person to confess it.
on this subject i have nothing more to say, no other apology to offer.
i expected at least that the pigs were got into the garden, and here is nothing but lady catherine and her daughter!
bennet: one communication would, therefore, do for all.
in lydia s imagination, a visit to brighton comprised every possibility of earthly happiness.
dear lizzy, only consider what he must have suffered.
whenever she spoke in a low voice mrs.
a great many indeed, said her companion, with a sigh.
denny addressed them directly, and entreated permission to introduce his friend, mr.
in future, i hope we shall be always of one mind.
bingley will dance with you at the next ball.
as a child, she was affectionate and pleasing, and extremely fond of me; and i have devoted hours and hours to her amusement.
i cannot find out that i hate her at all, or that i am in the least unwilling to think her a very good sort of girl.
besides, it will not much signify what one wears this summer, after the shire have left meryton, and they are going in a fortnight.
be so kind as to apologize for us to miss darcy.
lady catherine was reckoned proud by many people, he knew, but he had never seen anything but affability in her.
bingley and jane were standing together a little detached from the rest, and talked only to each other.
collins have a comfortable income, but not such a one as will allow of frequent journeys and i am persuaded my friend would not call herself near her family under less than half the present distance.
yes, there can; for mine is totally different.
collins, did i tell you of lady metcalfe s calling yesterday to thank me?
i defy even sir william lucas himself to produce a more valuable son-in-law.
i am sure wickham would like a place at court very much; and i do not think we shall have quite money enough to live upon without some help.
or under what misrepresentation can you here impose upon others?
it is a circumstance which darcy of course could not wish to be generally known, because if it were to get round to the lady s family it would be an unpleasant thing.
he heard her with astonishment.
jane ran to her uncle and aunt, and welcomed and thanked them both, with alternate smiles and tears.
his marriage was now fast approaching; and she was at length so far resigned as to think it inevitable, and even repeatedly to say, in an ill-natured tone, that she wished they might be happy.
i wonder when you would have spoken if i had not asked you!
for my part, i am determined never to speak of it again to anybody.
he spoke well; but there were feelings besides those of the heart to be detailed, and he was not more eloquent on the subject of tenderness than of pride.
how i should like to be married before any of you!
bennet had designed to keep the two netherfield gentlemen to supper; but their carriage was, unluckily, ordered before any of the others, and she had no opportunity of detaining them.
i am most seriously displeased.
but there was still something lurking behind, of which prudence forbade the disclosure.
miss bingley s congratulations to her brother on his approaching marriage were all that was affectionate and insincere.
till i was in kent, and saw so much both of mr.
darcy had been, was much relieved by discerning such different feelings.
you must, therefore, pardon the freedom with which i demand your attention; your feelings, i know, will bestow it unwillingly, but i demand it of your justice.
hurst sang with her sister; and while they were thus employed, elizabeth could not help observing, as she turned over some music-books that lay on the instrument, how frequently mr.
i could not bear to have her ten miles from me; and as for purvis lodge, the attics are dreadful.
i never met with anybody who delighted me so much.
that they should marry, small as is their chance of happiness, and wretched as is his character, we are forced to rejoice!
oh, jane, cried elizabeth, was there a servant belonging to it who did not know the whole story before the end of the day?
and i am not so certain that i should myself use the word narrow in connection with her.
but of this answer lydia heard not a word.
are any of your younger sisters out, miss bennet?
he was her dear wickham on every occasion; no one was to be put in competition with him.
cried maria, after a few minutes silence, it seems but a day or two since we first came!
allowing for the common demands of the game, mr.
i am sorry to pain you, but so it was.
at such a distance as that, you know, things are strangely misrepresented.
they will never be distressed for money.
darcy, chose for her employment the examination of all the letters which jane had written to her since her being in kent.
she wanted to talk, but there seemed an embargo on every subject.
collins begins to say that he will not have lizzy.
darcy, she could not but allow that mr.
it now occurred to the girls that their mother was in all likelihood perfectly ignorant of what had happened.
why, indeed, he does seem to have had some filial scruples on that head, as you will hear.
let us hope for better things.
the whole party before them, indeed, excited a lively attention.
he begins with congratulations on the approaching nuptials of my eldest daughter, of which, it seems, he has been told by some of the good-natured, gossiping lucases.
you must know that i am thinking of his marrying one of them.
it is nothing in comparison of rosings, my lady, i dare say; but, i assure you, it is much larger than sir william lucas s.
she was humbled, she was grieved; she repented, though she hardly knew of what.
i suspected as much, replied elizabeth.
both sisters were uncomfortable enough.
consider how important every moment is in such a case.
when i went away, i felt that it would soon happen.
they had just been preparing to walk as the letters came in; and her uncle and aunt, leaving her to enjoy them in quiet, set off by themselves.
putting away the letter immediately, and forcing a smile, she said, i did not know before that you ever walked this way.
and so, i suppose, they often talk of having longbourn when your father is dead.
there is a stubbornness about me that never can bear to be frightened at the will of others.
yes; but intricate characters are the most amusing.
the room in which the ladies sat was backwards.
that you were gone into the army, and she was afraid had not turned out well.
there are few people in england, i suppose, who have more true enjoyment of music than myself, or a better natural taste.
i confess, said he, that i should not have been at all surprised by her ladyship s asking us on sunday to drink tea and spend the evening at rosings.
i have written to colonel forster, to inform him of our present arrangements, and to request that he will satisfy the various creditors of mr.
elizabeth noticed every sentence conveying the idea of uneasiness, with an attention which it had hardly received on the first perusal.
she had no fear of its spreading farther, through his means.
i have spent four days in the same house with him, and i think him very disagreeable.
elizabeth could not repress a smile at this, but she answered only by a slight inclination of the head.
at present we have nothing to guide us.
yes; and i told him we should not be able to keep our engagement.
i do assure you, sir, that i have no pretensions whatever to that kind of elegance which consists in tormenting a respectable man.
darcy, she left elizabeth to walk by herself.
the looks and behaviour of everybody they had seen were discussed, except of the person who had mostly engaged their attention.
the subject which had been so warmly canvassed between their parents, about a twelvemonth ago, was now brought forward again.
it is a nice long walk, and mr.
elizabeth soon saw that she was herself closely watched by miss bingley, and that she could not speak a word, especially to miss darcy, without calling her attention.
he resigned all claim to assistance in the church, were it possible that he could ever be in a situation to receive it, and accepted in return three thousand pounds.
upon the whole, i am much pleased with him.
darcy s behaviour astonished and vexed her.
her aunt asked her, smilingly, how she liked it.
elizabeth was too much embarrassed to say a word.
it is impossible that he should still love me.
human nature is so prone to fall into it!
very well and this offer of marriage you have refused?
on reaching the house, they were shown through the hall into the saloon, whose northern aspect rendered it delightful for summer.
it would be such a delicious scheme, and i dare say would hardly cost anything at all.
wickham, lydia, were all forgotten.
reynolds replied, that he was; adding, but we expect him to-morrow, with a large party of friends.
louisa and i were agreeing that we should not have known her again.
elizabeth merely courtesied to him, without saying a word.
by elizabeth s instructions she began to comprehend that a woman may take liberties with her husband, which a brother will not always allow in a sister more than ten years younger than himself.
this has been my motive, my fair cousin, and i flatter myself it will not sink me in your esteem.
yes; and i had heard it before.
scarcely a syllable was uttered that did not relate to the game, except when mrs.
not at all, he replied: they were brightened by the exercise.
the distance is nothing, when one has a motive; only three miles.
and if not able to please himself in the arrangement, he has at least great pleasure in the power of choice.
a thousand things may arise in six months.
these are home questions and perhaps i cannot say that i have experienced many hardships of that nature.
accompanied by their aunt what can be the meaning of this?
bingley had been a most delightful friend; so easily guided that his worth was invaluable; but she checked herself.
bennet was quite in the fidgets.
if i were to go through the world, i could not meet with a better.
i hope she will turn out well.
she has been doing everything in her power, by thinking and talking on the subject, to give greater what shall i call it?
brighton and a whole campful of soldiers, to us, who have been overset already by one poor regiment of militia, and the monthly balls of meryton!
darcy, while viewing the place, instantly occurred.
console lady catherine as well as you can.
do you not know that such a report is spread abroad?
ay, so it is, cried her mother, and mrs.
as they passed into other rooms, these objects were taking different positions; but from every window there were beauties to be seen.
such were the gentle murmurs of mrs.
when she is secure of him, there will be leisure for falling in love as much as she chooses.
you know nothing of the matter.
there was just such an informality in the terms of the bequest as to give me no hope from law.
there was novelty in the scheme; and as, with such a mother and such uncompanionable sisters, home could not be faultless, a little change was not unwelcome for its own sake.
lady lucas could not be insensible of triumph on being able to retort on mrs.
there is nothing else to be done.
also there is in both a certain not inhuman or unamiable cruelty.
who is to fight wickham, and make him marry her, if he comes away?
i shall never be quite happy till i have been all round the park.
she hated having visitors in the house while her health was so indifferent, and lovers were of all people the most disagreeable.
she remembered that he had yet to learn to be laughed at, and it was rather too early to begin.
wickham, and give him an invitation also, if the family from longbourn would come in the evening.
my reproofs at hunsford could not work such a change as this.
if it be so, if i have been misled by such error to inflict pain on her, your resentment has not been unreasonable.
my conscience told me that i deserved no extraordinary politeness, and i confess that i did not expect to receive more than my due.
but before she had been three minutes in her own room, her mother followed her.
the insipidity, and yet the noise the nothingness, and yet the self-importance, of all these people!
your character was unfolded in the recital which i received many months ago from mr.
bennet half opened the door and called out, lizzy, my dear, i want to speak with you.
they lagged behind, while elizabeth, kitty, and darcy were to entertain each other.
do not imagine me ignorant of their condition.
i am not qualified to form one.
but i hope there is no strong attachment on either side, said jane.
lady catherine, said she, you have given me a treasure.
she is a very great favourite with some ladies of my acquaintance, mrs.
cried lydia: i wonder my aunt did not tell us of that.
elizabeth received her congratulations amongst the rest, and then, sick of this folly, took refuge in her own room, that she might think with freedom.
bingley himself, elizabeth withdrew to miss lucas; to whose inquiry after the pleasantness of her last partner she had scarcely replied, before mr.
after a short pause, her companion added, you are too generous to trifle with me.
elizabeth could not help saying, it is very much to his credit, i am sure, that you should think so.
then, after a short silence, he continued, lizzy, i bear you no ill-will for being justified in your advice to me last may, which, considering the event, shows some greatness of mind.
there is much more difference as to their best work than in the case of those others who are loved by allowance by convention, and because it is felt to be the right and proper thing to love them.
philips s supper party, but his manners recommended him to everybody.
nothing is false; nothing is superfluous.
darcy would bring his sister to visit her the very day after her reaching pemberley; and was, consequently, resolved not to be out of sight of the inn the whole of that morning.
she was disappointed, and angry with herself for being so.
caroline decidedly says that none of the party will return into hertfordshire this winter.
you cannot refuse to dance, i am sure, when so much beauty is before you.
i have met with two instances lately: one i will not mention, the other is charlotte s marriage.
i roused and interested you, because i was so unlike them.
the particulars i reserve till we meet.
a small part of derbyshire is all the present concern.
do your sisters play and sing?
i wish you very happy and very rich, and by refusing your hand, do all in my power to prevent your being otherwise.
and we mean to treat you all, added lydia; but you must lend us the money, for we have just spent ours at the shop out there.
jones therefore do not be alarmed if you should hear of his having been to me and, excepting a sore throat and a headache, there is not much the matter with me.
i am extremely glad that you have such pleasant accounts from our friends at hunsford.
there is not one of his tenants or servants but what will give him a good name.
if it was not for the entail, i should not mind it.
collins welcomed her friend with the liveliest pleasure, and elizabeth was more and more satisfied with coming, when she found herself so affectionately received.
darcy gave her the letter, did not expect it to contain a renewal of his offers, she had formed no expectation at all of its contents.
it is an advantage to have it so far from this part of the kingdom.
gardiner, after general assurances of his affection for her and all her family, told her that he meant to be in london the very next day, and would assist mr.
the rest of the evening was spent in conjecturing how soon he would return mr.
i do not know anybody who seems more to enjoy the power of doing what he likes than mr.
i wish you had been there, my dear, to have given him one of your set-downs.
the first mentioned was, that, regardless of the sentiments of either, i had detached mr.
have you anything else to propose for my domestic felicity?
when her mother went up to her dressing-room at night, she followed her, and made the important communication.
when they were all in the drawing-room, the questions which elizabeth had already asked were of course repeated by the others, and they soon found that jane had no intelligence to give.
bennet, with more perseverance than politeness, protested he must be entirely mistaken; and lydia, always unguarded and often uncivil, boisterously exclaimed, good lord!
it was impossible for her to see the word without thinking of pemberley and its owner.
elizabeth had heard, soon after her arrival, that mr.
i have not forgot, you see; and i assure you i was very much disappointed that you did not come back and keep your engagement.
i am sure we owe him no such particular civility as to be obliged to say nothing he may not like to hear.
happy for all her maternal feelings was the day on which mrs.
a small sum could not do all this.
he could be still amiable, still pleasing to my uncle and aunt, when he was in town; and why not to me?
wickham, suspended, amongst several other miniatures, over the mantel-piece.
darcy, he concluded his speech, which had been spoken so loud as to be heard by half the room.
this information made elizabeth smile, as she thought of poor miss bingley.
had his first appearance, or his resemblance to the picture they had just been examining, been insufficient to assure the other two that they now saw mr.
i found that miss darcy was expected to dinner: i wish i could see her.
colonel forster is a sensible man, and will keep her out of any real mischief; and she is luckily too poor to be an object of prey to anybody.
it has sometimes, i believe, been urged that his pride is unnatural at first in its expression and later in its yielding, while his falling in love at all is not extremely probable.
my dear, do not give way to such gloomy thoughts.
wickham will never marry a woman without some money.
in the desperation of her feelings, she resolved on one effort more; and, turning to elizabeth, said, miss eliza bennet, let me persuade you to follow my example, and take a turn about the room.
bennet the compliment of requesting you to interpose your authority in my behalf.
has he deigned to add aught of civility to his ordinary style?
when lady catherine and her daughter had played as long as they chose, the tables were broken up, the carriage was offered to mrs.
i cannot boast of knowing more than half-a-dozen in the whole range of my acquaintance that are really accomplished.
and pray, lizzy, what said lady catherine about this report?
had his character been known, this could not have happened.
his wish of introducing his sister to her was a compliment of the highest kind.
darcy, though every glance convinced her of what she dreaded; for though he was not always looking at her mother, she was convinced that his attention was invariably fixed by her.
i assure you, madam, he replied, that she does not need such advice.
miss bingley immediately fixed her eyes on his face, and desired he would tell her what lady had the credit of inspiring such reflections.
well, he is a very undeserving young man and i do not suppose there is the least chance in the world of her ever getting him now.
jane then took it from her pocket-book, and gave it to elizabeth.
oh, certainly, cried his faithful assistant, no one can be really esteemed accomplished who does not greatly surpass what is usually met with.
he did look at it, and into it, for half an hour; was pleased with the situation and the principal rooms, satisfied with what the owner said in its praise, and took it immediately.
their conduct has been such, replied elizabeth, as neither you, nor i, nor anybody, can ever forget.
darcy for herself, she would have ordered her wedding clothes.
yes, he went on tuesday, as i wrote you word.
he then asked her to walk into the house but she declared herself not tired, and they stood together on the lawn.
hurst looked at her with astonishment.
i suppose she had nothing particular to say to you, lizzy?
forster and me are such friends!) and so she asked the two harringtons to come: but harriet was ill, and so pen was forced to come by herself; and then, what do you think we did?
hurst and miss bingley they were noticed only by a courtesy; and on their being seated, a pause, awkward as such pauses must always be, succeeded for a few moments.
the housekeeper came forward, and told them it was the picture of a young gentleman, the son of her late master s steward, who had been brought up by him at his own expense.
it is a pity that great ladies in general are not more like her.
and to the pang of a friend disgracing herself, and sunk in her esteem, was added the distressing conviction that it was impossible for that friend to be tolerably happy in the lot she had chosen.
you have no regard, then, for the honour and credit of my nephew!
for your sake, turning to charlotte, i am glad of it; but otherwise i see no occasion for entailing estates from the female line.
do not give way to useless alarm, added he: though it is right to be prepared for the worst, there is no occasion to look on it as certain.
i believe him to be lady catherine s nephew.
darcy would never have come so soon to wait upon me.
oh, why is not everybody as happy?
all that is known after this is, that they were seen to continue the london road.
but, my dear lydia, i don t at all like your going such a way off.
the family were assembled in the breakfast-room to receive them.
at length, every idea seemed to fail him; and after standing a few moments without saying a word, he suddenly recollected himself, and took leave.
darcy to account for his having ever fallen in love with her.
bennet s means, for his coming next morning to shoot with her husband.
but if a woman is partial to a man, and does not endeavor to conceal it, he must find it out.
i am sorry to say it of them, but so it is.
he was struggling for the appearance of composure, and would not open his lips till he believed himself to have attained it.
jones should be sent for early in the morning, if miss bennet were not decidedly better.
i am very sensible of the honour of your proposals, but it is impossible for me to do otherwise than decline them.
i cannot forget the follies and vices of others so soon as i ought, nor their offences against myself.
i could hardly keep my countenance.
yes, or i will never see her again.
she could not win him, however, to any conversation; he merely answered her question and read on.
elizabeth s mind was too full for conversation, but she saw and admired every remarkable spot and point of view.
it must be very agreeable to her to be settled within so easy a distance of her own family and friends.
oh, jane, had we been less secret, had we told what we knew of him, this could not have happened!
they had frequently been staying with her in town.
no i cannot talk of books in a ball-room; my head is always full of something else.
wickham s circumstances are not so hopeless as they are generally believed to be.
she had only to say in reply, that they had wandered about till she was beyond her own knowledge.
and it was settled that we should all be there by eleven o clock.
the party then gathered round the fire to hear lady catherine determine what weather they were to have on the morrow.
i assure you that if darcy were not such a great tall fellow, in comparison with myself, i should not pay him half so much deference.
the compliment to herself and her sister was not unfelt.
nothing occurred between them that could justify the hopes of his sister.
the certainty of meeting him had not been checked by any of those recollections that might not unreasonably have alarmed her.
take whatever you like, and get away.
the idea of the olive branch perhaps is not wholly new, yet i think it is well expressed.
i should not be surprised, said darcy, if he were to give it up as soon as any eligible purchase offers.
i wish i might take this for a compliment; but to be so easily seen through, i am afraid, is pitiful.
at brighton she will be of less importance even as a common flirt than she has been here.
elizabeth looked at her sister with incredulous solicitude, but said nothing.
their eyes were immediately wandering up the street in quest of the officers, and nothing less than a very smart bonnet, indeed, or a really new muslin in a shop window, could recall them.
she is a handsome girl, about fifteen or sixteen, and, i understand, highly accomplished.
you give me fresh life and vigour.
are you lost to every feeling of propriety and delicacy?
the power of doing anything with quickness is always much prized by the possessor, and often without any attention to the imperfection of the performance.
but with such a father and mother, and such low connections, i am afraid there is no chance of it.
bennet arrived, he had all the appearance of his usual philosophic composure.
collins, who entered with an air more stately than usual, and on perceiving whom, she said to the girls, now, i do insist upon it, that you, all of you, hold your tongues, and let mr.
how near it may be to mine, i cannot pretend to say.
he began to wish to know more of her; and, as a step towards conversing with her himself, attended to her conversation with others.
darcy liked me less, his son might have borne with me better; but his father s uncommon attachment to me irritated him, i believe, very early in life.
i am not going to run away, papa, said kitty, fretfully.
with this answer elizabeth was forced to be content; but her own opinion continued the same, and she left him disappointed and sorry.
perhaps other people have said so before, but no one with such justice.
gardiner were engaged with their children, was now put an end to by the approach of the whole party.
bingley was punctual to his appointment; and he and mr.
she was not of so ungovernable a temper as lydia; and, removed from the influence of lydia s example, she became, by proper attention and management, less irritable, less ignorant, and less insipid.
at that moment sir william lucas appeared close to them, meaning to pass through the set to the other side of the room; but, on perceiving mr.
her nose wants character; there is nothing marked in its lines.
my style of writing is very different from yours.
bingley, but without seeming to have noticed what passed, took leave and rode on with his friend.
pride, observed mary, who piqued herself upon the solidity of her reflections, is a very common failing, i believe.
collins, who was complimenting mr.
she has been allowed to dispose of her time in the most idle and frivolous manner, and to adopt any opinions that came in her way.
the part which i acted is now to be explained.
darcy is impatient to see his sister; and to confess the truth, we are scarcely less eager to meet her again.
when they all removed to brighton, therefore, you had no reason, i suppose, to believe them fond of each other?
collins s joints of meat were too large for her family.
the next morning, however, made an alteration; for in a quarter of an hour s tête-à-tête with mrs.
if there were but such another man for you!
she is a very headstrong, foolish girl, and does not know her own interest; but i will make her know it.
long told me last night that he sat close to her for half an hour without once opening his lips.
as they passed through the hall, lady catherine opened the doors into the dining-parlour and drawing-room, and pronouncing them, after a short survey, to be decent-looking rooms, walked on.
their visitors stayed with them above half an hour; and when they arose to depart, mr.
his attachment excited gratitude, his general character respect: but she could not approve him; nor could she for a moment repent her refusal, or feel the slightest inclination ever to see him again.
darcy, that you hardly ever forgave; that your resentment, once created, was unappeasable.
bingley likes, said her mother, resentfully, since we are not to visit.
what you ask, said elizabeth, is no sacrifice on my side; and mr.
cheerful prognostics they are wanted in the farm much oftener than i can get them.
it is from miss bingley, said jane, and then read it aloud.
what would i give to hear your strictures on them!
but the attention of every lady was soon caught by a young man, whom they had never seen before, of most gentlemanlike appearance, walking with an officer on the other side of the way.
that will make your ladyship s situation at present more pitiable; but it will have no effect on me.
to caroline s assertion of her brother s being partial to miss darcy, she paid no credit.
how good it was in you, my dear mr.
you have delighted us long enough.
he then went away, and miss bingley was left to all the satisfaction of having forced him to say what gave no one any pain but herself.
her air was not conciliating, nor was her manner of receiving them such as to make her visitors forget their inferior rank.
from their infancy, they have been intended for each other.
i cannot misunderstand you, but i entreat you, dear lizzy, not to pain me by thinking that person to blame, and saying your opinion of him is sunk.
you shall have it in a few words.
it was a painful, but not an improbable, conjecture.
gardiner soon wrote again to his brother.
no, replied jane, i have not forgotten him; but i have nothing satisfactory to tell you.
how is such a man to be worked on?
could i expect it to be otherwise?
he scarcely needed an invitation to stay supper; and before he went away an engagement was formed, chiefly through his own and mrs.
her astonishment, as she reflected on what had passed, was increased by every review of it.
the situation of affairs in the longbourn family could not be long a secret.
it was a large, well-proportioned room, handsomely fitted up.
lydia declared herself satisfied.
when she came to that part of the letter in which her family were mentioned, in tones of such mortifying, yet merited, reproach, her sense of shame was severe.
darcy rise also and follow him, and her agitation on seeing it was extreme.
i know of nobody that is coming, i am sure, unless charlotte lucas should happen to call in; and i hope my dinners are good enough for her.
she was now struck with the impropriety of such communications to a stranger, and wondered it had escaped her before.
elizabeth related to jane, the next day, what had passed between mr.
bennet protested against any description of finery.
elizabeth could not oppose such a wish; and from this time mr.
to catherine and lydia neither the letter nor its writer were in any degree interesting.
how little did you tell me of what passed at pemberley and lambton!
darcy chose to doubt it or to treat it as a merely conditional recommendation, and to assert that i had forfeited all claim to it by extravagance, imprudence, in short, anything or nothing.
collins has no instrument, she is very welcome, as i have often told her, to come to rosings every day, and play on the pianoforte in mrs.
while the family were in this confusion, charlotte lucas came to spend the day with them.
philips, appears to do so much credit to; but he gave up everything to be of use to the late mr.
darcy had considerable patronage in the church, and his cousin could have none at all.
it will be in my power to assure him that her ladyship was quite well yesterday se nnight.
one came from her books, and the other from her toilette.
he was as generous, she doubted not, as the most generous of his sex.
collins is really great; far greater than anything addison ever did, almost great enough for fielding or for swift himself.
for herself she was humbled; but she was proud of him, proud that in a cause of compassion and honour he had been able to get the better of himself.
but when the gentlemen entered, jane was no longer the first object; miss bingley s eyes were instantly turned towards darcy, and she had something to say to him before he had advanced many steps.
i wish i could call her amiable.
collins, sat for some time without speaking to anybody.
philips, and was, by her watchfulness, most abundantly supplied with coffee and muffin.
elizabeth, as they drove along, watched for the first appearance of pemberley woods with some perturbation; and when at length they turned in at the lodge, her spirits were in a high flutter.
i am always glad to get a young person well placed out.
is he coming home, and without poor lydia?
it is excellent news, capital news, and about a certain person that we all like.
but do not imagine that he is always here so often.
if you ll believe me, i did not once put my foot out of doors, though i was there a fortnight.
hurst and miss bingley, and the lady with whom she lived in london.
this fine account of him, whispered her aunt as they walked, is not quite consistent with his behaviour to our poor friend.
bennet could not give her consent, or speak her approbation in terms warm enough to satisfy her feelings, though she talked to bingley of nothing else, for half an hour; and when mr.
has she frightened away some of your lovers?
i do assure you that the news does not affect me either with pleasure or pain.
the country is a vast deal pleasanter, is not it, mr.
bennet say voluntarily to elizabeth, i am glad you are come back, lizzy.
she was not near enough to hear any of their discourse; but she could see how seldom they spoke to each other, and how formal and cold was their manner whenever they did.
reynolds, either from pride or attachment, had evidently great pleasure in talking of her master and his sister.
they battled it together for a long time, which was more than either the gentleman or lady concerned in it deserved.
i am afraid he has been very imprudent, and has deserved to lose mr.
she was received, however, very politely by them; and in their brother s manners there was something better than politeness there was good-humour and kindness.
but my feelings are not only cordial towards him, they are even impartial towards miss king.
in pompous nothings on his side, and civil assents on that of his cousins, their time passed till they entered meryton.
her behaviour to my dear charlotte is charming.
she does not touch what she did not feel herself called to paint; i am not so sure that she could not have painted what she did not feel herself called to touch.
elizabeth s congratulations were given with a sincerity, a warmth, a delight, which words could but poorly express.
have all her friends left her?
after a pause of some minutes, she addressed him a second time, with it is your turn to say something now, mr.
miss bingley s attention was quite as much engaged in watching mr.
bennet the next morning, but the post came in without bringing a single line from him.
he did not leave his name, and till the next day it was only known that a gentleman had called on business.
he could number the fields in every direction, and could tell how many trees there were in the most distant clump.
tis an etiquette i despise, said he.
the gentleman experienced some change of feeling; he drew back his chair, took a newspaper from the table, and, glancing over it, said, in a colder voice, are you pleased with kent?
i told my sister philips so the other day.
we had such a good piece of fun the other day at colonel forster s!
darcy, observed miss bingley, in a half whisper, that this adventure has rather affected your admiration of her fine eyes.
the extravagance and general profligacy which he scrupled not to lay to mr.
collins was impossible or non-existent at the end of the eighteenth century.
on this subject, what can you have to say?
at that moment she cared for no other.
you will hardly bear to be long outdone by jane.
gardiner could not be seen; and mr.
but i confess they would have no charms for me.
her mind received knowledge which had never before fallen in her way.
it would have spared her from explanations and professions which it was exceedingly awkward to give; but they were now necessary, and she assured him, with some confusion, of her attachment to mr.
but to be guarded at such a time is very difficult.
she often tried to provoke darcy into disliking her guest, by talking of their supposed marriage, and planning his happiness in such an alliance.
collins was also in the same state of angry pride.
there, shut into her own room, as soon as their visitor left them, she could think without interruption of all that she had heard.
how soon any other wishes introduced themselves, i can hardly tell, but i believe in about half an hour after i had seen you.
were it known to the rest of my family i should not have merely my own gratitude to express.
my dear, dear aunt, she rapturously cried, what delight!
i have been most highly gratified, indeed, my dear sir; such very superior dancing is not often seen.
elizabeth made no objection: the door was then allowed to be shut, and the carriage drove off.
and this is your real opinion!
depend upon it, my dear, that when there are twenty, i will visit them all.
nothing that she could say, however, had any influence.
wickham had accepted their uncle s invitation, and was then in the house.
i did not expect such a compliment.
i thank you for my share of the favour, said elizabeth; but i do not particularly like your way of getting husbands.
i do not know of any other designs that he had formed; but he was in such a hurry to be gone, and his spirits so greatly discomposed, that i had difficulty in finding out even so much as this.
reynolds was of no trifling nature.
all the minor passages the loves of jane and bingley, the advent of mr.
tell me, once for all, are you engaged to him?
the comfort to her, of the regiment s approaching removal, was indeed beyond expression.
on entering the room, he seemed to hesitate; but jane happened to look round, and happened to smile: it was decided.
in what an amiable light does this place him!
philips first brought her the news).
i could not have parted with you, my lizzy, to anyone less worthy.
it certainly is a most iniquitous affair, said mr.
they had all been very ill-used since she last saw her sister.
elizabeth had scarcely time to disclaim all right to the compliment before their approach was announced by the door-bell, and shortly afterwards the three gentlemen entered the room.
i will only add, god bless you.
walt whitman has somewhere a fine and just distinction between loving by allowance and loving with personal love.
i do not know whether i ever before mentioned to you my feelings on this subject, but i will not leave the country without confiding them, and i trust you will not esteem them unreasonable.
go, my dear, cried her mother, and show her ladyship about the different walks.
she performed her part, indeed, without much graciousness, but mrs.
he smiled, looked handsome, and said many pretty things.
but, however, he is very welcome to come to netherfield, if he likes it.
de maupassant, and watch him laboriously piling up strokes in the hope of giving a complete impression.
i must conclude, for i cannot be long from my poor mother.
after walking several miles in a leisurely manner, and too busy to know anything about it, they found at last, on examining their watches, that it was time to be at home.
but in an instant arose the dreadful suspicion of his being purposely omitted, for mr.
the rector of a parish has much to do.
bennet was profuse in her acknowledgments.
it cannot be for me, it cannot be for my sake that his manners are thus softened.
come as soon as you can on the receipt of this.
you will have a charming mother-in-law, indeed, and of course she will be always at pemberley with you.
these causes must be stated, though briefly.
bennet s eyes sparkled with pleasure, and she was eagerly calling out, while her daughter read, well, jane, who is it from?
gardiner s behaviour laid them all under.
thank god i have not that pain.
yes, replied darcy, who could contain himself no longer, but that was only when i first knew her; for it is many months since i have considered her as one of the handsomest women of my acquaintance.
a few days after this visit, mr.
elizabeth excused herself as well as she could: said that she had liked him better when they met in kent than before, and that she had never seen him so pleasant as this morning.
yes; and they have another, who lives somewhere near cheapside.
i would rather be paid the compliment of being believed sincere.
there has been many a one, i fancy, overcome in the same way.
but i would really advise you to make your purchase in that neighbourhood, and take pemberley for a kind of model.
the wedding took place: the bride and bridegroom set off for kent from the church door, and everybody had as much to say or to hear on the subject as usual.
how could she deny that credit to his assertions, in one instance, which she had been obliged to give in the other?
his pride never deserts him; but with the rich he is liberal-minded, just, sincere, rational, honourable, and, perhaps, agreeable, allowing something for fortune and figure.
collins, all praise of me will be unnecessary.
sir, you quite misunderstand me, said mrs.
darcy, looking at the eldest miss bennet.
on the very day of my coming home from longbourn, your uncle had a most unexpected visitor.
jenkinson, in whose appearance there was nothing remarkable, and who was entirely engaged in listening to what she said, and placing a screen in the proper direction before her eyes.
whether he had felt more of pain or of pleasure in seeing her, she could not tell, but he certainly had not seen her with composure.
promise me, therefore, to come to hunsford.
he must be an oddity, i think, said she.
and when i returned home the shire was to leave meryton in a week or fortnight s time.
she was immediately told, that the two gentlemen from rosings had each called during her absence; mr.
his debts to be discharged, and something still to remain!
he was too happy, however, to need much attention; and, luckily for the others, the business of love-making relieved them from a great deal of his company.
bingley might like you the best of the party.
whenever charlotte came to see them, she concluded her to be anticipating the hour of possession; and whenever she spoke in a low voice to mr.
would to heaven that anything could be either said or done on my part, that might offer consolation to such distress!
bingley s being there; and as to the loss of their society, she was persuaded that jane must soon cease to regard it in the enjoyment of his.
she knew but little of their meeting in derbyshire, and therefore felt for the awkwardness which must attend her sister, in seeing him almost for the first time after receiving his explanatory letter.
she mentioned this to her friend, miss lucas.
i am glad it occurred to me to mention it; for it would really be discreditable to you to let them go alone.
well, i was so frightened i did not know what to do, for my uncle was to give me away; and if we were beyond the hour we could not be married all day.
i do not know: i hope there was.
there is no knowing how estates will go when once they come to be entailed.
copyright 1894 by george allen.
we have judged it best that my niece should be married from this house, of which i hope you will approve.
others of the party were now applied to.
during their walk, it was resolved that mr.
collins s return into hertfordshire was no longer a matter of pleasure to mrs.
bennet joined them at supper, his voice and manner plainly showed how really happy he was.
collins has just related as made by himself to lady catherine, may i ask whether these pleasing attentions proceed from the impulse of the moment, or are the result of previous study?
i, who have valued myself on my abilities!
if her world is a microcosm, the cosmic quality of it is at least as eminent as the littleness.
well, that was very decided, indeed that does seem as if but, however, it may all come to nothing, you know.
but while he was mortal, there must be a triumph.
not that i care about it, though.
it convinced her that accident only could discover to mr.
if such goodness does not make her miserable now, she will never deserve to be happy!
bennet s ill humour or ill health.
it seems to me to show an abominable sort of conceited independence, a most country-town indifference to decorum.
we know how little there is to tempt anyone to our humble abode.
her reflections were in general satisfactory.
she saw him start at this; but he said nothing, and she continued, you could not have made me the offer of your hand in any possible way that would have tempted me to accept it.
that he was surprised by the connection was evident: he sustained it, however, with fortitude: and, so far from going away, turned back with them, and entered into conversation with mr.
oh then some time or other we shall be happy to hear you.
we were talking of music, madam, said he, when no longer able to avoid a reply.
bennet, impossible, when i am not acquainted with him myself; how can you be so teasing?
her carriage remained at the door, and elizabeth saw that her waiting-woman was in it.
i must ask whether you were surprised?
elizabeth felt herself completely taken in.
her power was sinking; everything must sink under such a proof of family weakness, such an assurance of the deepest disgrace.
morris immediately; that he is to take possession before michaelmas, and some of his servants are to be in the house by the end of next week.
but elizabeth had sources of uneasiness which could not yet be suspected by jane, to whom she had never yet had courage to show mrs.
she will follow wherever lydia leads.
pursuing her way along the lane, she then began it.
you need not send them word at longbourn of my going, if you do not like it, for it will make the surprise the greater when i write to them, and sign my name lydia wickham.
elizabeth can give at least as good as she gets when she is attacked; but she never scratches, and she never attacks first.
first of all, he asked miss lucas.
there was also a legacy of one thousand pounds.
darcy s using him ill, it is perfectly false: for, on the contrary, he has been always remarkably kind to him, though george wickham has treated mr.
their sister s wedding-day arrived; and jane and elizabeth felt for her probably more than she felt for herself.
gardiner, which at once delayed its commencement and curtailed its extent.
darcy had at first scarcely allowed her to be pretty: he had looked at her without admiration at the ball; and when they next met, he looked at her only to criticise.
you began the evening well, charlotte, said mrs.
was it merely to ride to longbourn and be embarrassed?
four weeks were to pass away before her uncle and aunt s arrival.
and she coloured at the idea; but, recovering herself, said in a lively tone, and pray, what is the usual price of an earl s younger son?
and this is always the way with him, she added.
could she exert herself, it would be better, but this is not to be expected; and as to my father, i never in my life saw him so affected.
i shall like it of all things.
i have a high respect for your nerves.
bennet wondered at their coming, and thought them very wrong to give so much trouble, and was sure jane would have caught cold again.
i say no more than the truth, and what everybody will say that knows him, replied the other.
at his own ball he offended two or three young ladies by not asking them to dance; and i spoke to him twice myself without receiving an answer.
but she is perfectly amiable, and often condescends to drive by my humble abode in her little phaeton and ponies.
as the day of his arrival drew near, i begin to be sorry that he comes at all, said jane to her sister.
bingley does not know the whole of his history, and is quite ignorant of the circumstances which have principally offended mr.
bennet rang the bell, and miss elizabeth was summoned to the library.
i almost envy you the pleasure, and yet i believe it would be too much for me, or else i could take it in my way to newcastle.
and do not you think him a very handsome gentleman, ma am?
but i knew not i was afraid of doing too much.
you may well be surprised, miss bennet, at such an assertion, after seeing, as you probably might, the very cold manner of our meeting yesterday.
you may depend upon it, madam, said miss bingley, with cold civility, that miss bennet shall receive every possible attention while she remains with us.
she expressed her gratitude again, but it was too painful a subject to each to be dwelt on farther.
if you and miss bennet will defer yours till i am out of the room, i shall be very thankful; and then you may say whatever you like of me.
elizabeth was pleased to find his memory so exact; and he afterwards took occasion to ask her, when unattended to by any of the rest, whether all her sisters were at longbourn.
his pride, in that direction, may be of service, if not to himself, to many others, for it must deter him from such foul misconduct as i have suffered by.
you do not make allowance enough for difference of situation and temper.
if he had not had a family of his own, i and my children must have had all his money, you know; and it is the first time we have ever had anything from him except a few presents.
he had been some time with mr.
collins, however, was not discouraged from speaking again, and mr.
undoubtedly, replied darcy, to whom this remark was chiefly addressed, there is meanness in all the arts which ladies sometimes condescend to employ for captivation.
sir william and lady lucas were speedily applied to for their consent; and it was bestowed with a most joyful alacrity.
make haste, and come down this moment.
but she does help him on, as much as her nature will allow.
she was then but fifteen, which must be her excuse; and after stating her imprudence, i am happy to add, that i owed the knowledge of it to herself.
collins might never make the offer, and, till he did, it was useless to quarrel about him.
i am no stranger to the particulars of your youngest sister s infamous elopement.
you have deprived the best years of his life of that independence which was no less his due than his desert.
bennet, looking as unconcerned as may be, and caring no more for us than if we were at york, provided she can have her own way.
here are officers enough at meryton to disappoint all the young ladies in the country.
bennet s being quite unable to sit alone.
but your family owe me nothing.
oh yes i understand you perfectly.
i was so vexed to see him stand up with her; but, however, he did not admire her at all; indeed, nobody can, you know; and he seemed quite struck with jane as she was going down the dance.
i shall never forget her appearance this morning.
the expression of his face changed gradually from indignant contempt to a composed and steady gravity.
bennet s visit, and sat about ten minutes with him in his library.
my ideas flow so rapidly that i have not time to express them; by which means my letters sometimes convey no ideas at all to my correspondents.
anything beyond the very neighbourhood of longbourn, i suppose, would appear far.
bingley was everything that was charming, except the professed lover of her daughter.
bennet, who had persuaded herself that her husband regarded the affair as she wished, was excessively disappointed.
he made a little mistake, to be sure; but it is to the credit of his modesty.
family pride, and filial pride, for he is very proud of what his father was, have done this.
my real purpose was to see you, and to judge, if i could, whether i might ever hope to make you love me.
and never allow yourself to be blinded by prejudice?
it was exactly a scene, and exactly among people, where he had apparently least to do, and least temptation to go.
you dislike an argument, and want to silence this.
we can all begin freely a slight preference is natural enough; but there are very few of us who have heart enough to be really in love without encouragement.
can she be ignorant of what you and jane seem so well to understand?
on the contrary, there is something pleasing about his mouth when he speaks.
bingley to see you all after him so soon; for, if i recollect right, he went but the day before.
he bore it, however, with admirable calmness.
darcy than they had before any idea of; it was evident that he was very much in love with her.
i beg you will not put it into lizzy s head to be vexed by his ill-treatment, for he is such a disagreeable man that it would be quite a misfortune to be liked by him.
how merry we shall be together when we meet!
it is done, however, and it was done for the best.
elizabeth was eager with her thanks and assurances of happiness.
everything, however, went on smoothly, and was finally settled according to charlotte s first sketch.
come, let me see the list of the pitiful fellows who have been kept aloof by lydia s folly.
miss bingley saw, or suspected, enough to be jealous; and her great anxiety for the recovery of her dear friend jane received some assistance from her desire of getting rid of elizabeth.
oh, she is the most beautiful creature i ever beheld!
she supposed, if he meant anything, he must mean an allusion to what might arise in that quarter.
but here he was set right by mrs.
so he inquired who she was, and got introduced, and asked her for the two next.
for though your accusations were ill-founded, formed on mistaken premises, my behaviour to you at the time had merited the severest reproof.
do you not think it would be a proper compliment to the place?
at four o clock, therefore, we may expect this peace-making gentleman, said mr.
bennet was most pressingly civil in her hope of seeing the whole family soon at longbourn; and addressed herself particularly to mr.
at length, however, our kind friend procured the wished-for direction.
come, darcy, said he, i must have you dance.
elizabeth looked archly, and turned away.
after playing some italian songs, miss bingley varied the charm by a lively scotch air; and soon afterwards mr.
it was at sir william lucas s, where a large party were assembled.
but georgiana would not join her.
darcy made no answer, and seemed desirous of changing the subject.
how ashamed i should be of not being married before three-and-twenty!
oh no it is not for me to be driven away by mr.
at last it arrested her and she beheld a striking resemblance of mr.
i shall write again as soon as anything more is determined on.
my character has ever been celebrated for its sincerity and frankness; and in a cause of such moment as this, i shall certainly not depart from it.
collins and maria were gone on business into the village, when she was startled by a ring at the door, the certain signal of a visitor.
but the spiritless condition which this event threw her into was shortly relieved, and her mind opened again to the agitation of hope, by an article of news which then began to be in circulation.
can his most intimate friends be so excessively deceived in him?
generous, good man, i am afraid he has distressed himself.
miss bennet, do you know who i am?
his wife was evidently, and must always have been, a quite irreclaimable fool; and unless he had shot her or himself there was no way out of it for a man of sense and spirit but the ironic.
gardiner, looking at the picture; it is a handsome face.
how rejoiced was elizabeth that their own journey had not by any circumstance been delayed a day!
my conduct may, i fear, be objectionable in having accepted my dismission from your daughter s lips instead of your own; but we are all liable to error.
hurst and miss bingley had spent some hours of the morning with the invalid, who continued, though slowly, to mend; and, in the evening, elizabeth joined their party in the drawing-room.
long does not come back till the day before; so, it will be impossible for her to introduce him, for she will not know him herself.
bingley was sure of being liked wherever he appeared; darcy was continually giving offence.
you have shown him off now much more than he did himself.
such were the kind of lamentations resounding perpetually through longbourn house.
about a month, said elizabeth; and then, unwilling to let the subject drop, added, he is a man of very large property in derbyshire, i understand.
that the wish of giving happiness to you might add force to the other inducements which led me on, i shall not attempt to deny.
his answer to this sudden attack was delightful to her mother s ear.
i thought miss elizabeth bennet looked remarkably well when she came into the room this morning.
i shall offer to pay him to-morrow, he will rant and storm about his love for you, and there will be an end of the matter.
but jane could think with certainty on only one point, that mr.
her ladyship was highly incensed.
i hope they will not meet at all.
in the afternoon lydia was urgent with the rest of the girls to walk to meryton, and see how everybody went on; but elizabeth steadily opposed the scheme.
and who knows what may happen?
i hoped to find you reasonable; but depend upon it i will carry my point.
bennet, and the mortification of kitty, are scarcely to be described.
with mary, miss austen has taken rather less pains, though she has been even more unkind to her; not merely in the text, but, as we learn from those interesting traditional appendices which mr.
what s his name that tall, proud man.
a day or two passed before jane had courage to speak of her feelings to elizabeth; but at last, on mrs.
very nonsensical to come at all!
miss bingley said something of his never returning to netherfield again, of giving up the house, but not with any certainty.
your mother will never see you again if you do not marry mr.
nor was her respect for him, though it made her more quiet, at all likely to make her more elegant.
as no objection was made to the young people s engagement with their aunt, and all mr.
how wickham and lydia were to be supported in tolerable independence she could not imagine.
in a short time, i shall have a daughter married.
his coming into the country at all is a most insolent thing, indeed, and i wonder how he could presume to do it.
darcy handed the ladies into the carriage; and when it drove off, elizabeth saw him walking slowly towards the house.
miss bennet, i insist on being satisfied.
elizabeth jumped out; and after giving each of them a hasty kiss, hurried into the vestibule, where jane, who came running downstairs from her mother s apartment, immediately met her.
darcy had been at her sister s wedding.
she found that she was to receive no other answer; and, after a short pause, added, i think i have understood that mr.
collins, and i will never see you again if you do.
colonel fitzwilliam seemed really glad to see them: anything was a welcome relief to him at rosings; and mrs.
to this speech bingley made no answer; but his sisters gave it their hearty assent, and indulged their mirth for some time at the expense of their dear friend s vulgar relations.
darcy, you cannot deny the fact.
they are gone down to newcastle, a place quite northward it seems, and there they are to stay, i do not know how long.
collins seemed neither in need of encouragement, nor inclined to be silent himself.
collins came up to them, and told her with great exultation, that he had just been so fortunate as to make a most important discovery.
the tumult of her mind was now painfully great.
she would not even wish for any renewal of his attentions.
louisa, you will not mind my waking mr.
she felt anew the justice of mr.
oh, my dear father, can you suppose it possible that they will not be censured and despised wherever they are known, and that their sisters will not be often involved in the disgrace?
the usual inquiries as to his success were made by the latter.
he had before believed her to return his affection with sincere, if not with equal, regard.
after abusing you so abominably to your face, i could have no scruple in abusing you to all your relations.
he shall not be in love with me, if i can prevent it.
when i went away, i am sure i had no more idea of being married till i came back again!
it was an evening of no common delight to them all; the satisfaction of miss bennet s mind gave such a glow of sweet animation to her face, as made her look handsomer than ever.
not a word, however, passed his lips in allusion to it, till their visitor took his leave for the night; but as soon as he was gone, he turned to his daughter and said, jane, i congratulate you.
i am sure i shan t get a wink of sleep all night.
he is, indeed: but considering the inducement, my dear miss eliza, we cannot wonder at his complaisance; for who would object to such a partner?
the chief of every day was spent by him at lucas lodge, and he sometimes returned to longbourn only in time to make an apology for his absence before the family went to bed.
how far your nephew might approve of your interference in his affairs, i cannot tell; but you have certainly no right to concern yourself in mine.
his debts are to be paid, amounting, i believe, to considerably more than a thousand pounds, another thousand in addition to her own settled upon her, and his commission purchased.
everybody said how well she looked; and mr.
when convinced on that article, miss bennet had nothing further to wish.
if you are a good girl for the next ten years, i will take you to a review at the end of them.
i have just as much right to be asked as she has, and more too, for i am two years older.
said jane, faintly smiling; you must know, that, though i should be exceedingly grieved at their disapprobation, i could not hesitate.
the communication excited many professions of concern; and enough was said of wishing them to stay at least till the following day to work on jane; and till the morrow their going was deferred.
but that is not the case here.
it is a proof of your own attachment to hertfordshire.
jenkinson to make up her party.
and do you impute it to either of those?
yes, she called yesterday with her father.
bennet, have you no more lanes hereabouts in which lizzy may lose her way again to-day?
she then took a large house in edward street, and has since maintained herself by letting lodgings.
wickham, i can only refute it by laying before you the whole of his connection with my family.
i will think no more about him.
they soon outstripped the others; and when they had reached the carriage, mr.
the fact is, that you were sick of civility, of deference, of officious attention.
darcy s, but you shall do as you choose.
your retrospections must be so totally void of reproach, that the contentment arising from them is not of philosophy, but, what is much better, of ignorance.
but he found, in reply to this question, that wickham still cherished the hope of more effectually making his fortune by marriage, in some other country.
darcy had much better finish his letter.
the ladies were somewhat more fortunate, for they had the advantage of ascertaining, from an upper window, that he wore a blue coat and rode a black horse.
i am sure i shall break mine, said lydia.
in the evening, soon after mr.
the visit was returned in due form.
you know it is not sound, and that you would never act in this way yourself.
you know i always speak my mind, and i cannot bear the idea of two young women travelling post by themselves.
but it is all, all too late now.
he delighted in going to pemberley, especially when he was least expected.
yes, miss bennet, interest; for do not expect to be noticed by his family or friends, if you wilfully act against the inclinations of all.
your list of the common extent of accomplishments, said darcy, has too much truth.
i will put on my things in a moment.
we will be down as soon as we can, said jane; but i dare say kitty is forwarder than either of us, for she went upstairs half an hour ago.
you could not have started a more happy idea, since you will not take comfort in mine: believe her to be deceived, by all means.
we passed each other several times.
she attracted him more than he liked; and miss bingley was uncivil to her and more teasing than usual to himself.
since her being at lambton, she had heard that miss darcy was exceedingly proud; but the observation of a very few minutes convinced her that she was only exceedingly shy.
society has claims on us all; and i profess myself one of those who consider intervals of recreation and amusement as desirable for everybody.
that is my idea of good breeding; and those persons who fancy themselves very important and never open their mouths quite mistake the matter.
bingley inherited property to the amount of nearly a hundred thousand pounds from his father, who had intended to purchase an estate, but did not live to do it.
the turn of your countenance i shall never forget, as you said that i could not have addressed you in any possible way that would induce you to accept me.
i shall not sport with your impatience by reading what he says on that point.
do let the portraits of your uncle and aunt philips be placed in the gallery at pemberley.
they have none of them much to recommend them, replied he: they are all silly and ignorant like other girls; but lizzy has something more of quickness than her sisters.
the sight of miss lucas was odious to her.
something very much to the purpose, of course.
no thanks to his gallantry for that.
bennet, said she, it is very hard to think that charlotte lucas should ever be mistress of this house, that i should be forced to make way for her, and live to see her take my place in it!
but, lizzy, this must go no further than yourself, or jane at most.
i am sure i know none so handsome; but in the gallery upstairs you will see a finer, larger picture of him than this.
i am not likely to leave kent for some time.
but i can assure you, she added, that lizzy does not lose much by not suiting his fancy; for he is a most disagreeable, horrid man, not at all worth pleasing.
elizabeth answered only by a slight bow.
till i have your disposition, your goodness, i never can have your happiness.
elizabeth s spirits were so high on the occasion, that though she did not often speak unnecessarily to mr.
such squeamish youths as cannot bear to be connected with a little absurdity are not worth a regret.
if we are ever able to learn what wickham s debts have been, said elizabeth, and how much is settled on his side on our sister, we shall exactly know what mr.
she is a most charming young lady, indeed.
bingley s chaise to go to meryton; and the hursts have no horses to theirs.
cried elizabeth, brightening up for a moment.
i sometimes wish that the exigencies of the story had permitted miss austen to unite these personages, and thus at once achieve a notable mating and soothe poor mrs.
every sentence of kindness was a fresh source of happiness to jane.
elizabeth replied very concisely that she was.
who that knows what his misfortunes have been can help feeling an interest in him?
bennet, in equal silence, was enjoying the scene.
i think she will be pleased with the hermitage.
the plot, though not elaborate, is almost regular enough for fielding; hardly a character, hardly an incident could be retrenched without loss to the story.
the gentlemen did approach: and when mr.
after sitting in this manner a quarter of an hour, without hearing miss bingley s voice, elizabeth was roused by receiving from her a cold inquiry after the health of her family.
i shall send this by express, that no time may be lost in bringing me your answer.
the one mis-sent must be first attended to; it had been written five days ago.
but in what proportions it should be divided amongst the latter depended on the will of the parents.
i thank you again and again for the honour you have done me in your proposals, but to accept them is absolutely impossible.
tell him i hope he will excuse me when he knows all, and tell him i will dance with him at the next ball we meet with great pleasure.
yes, he had no engagement at all for to-morrow; and her invitation was accepted with alacrity.
vanity and pride are different things, though the words are often used synonymously.
we seem to have been designed for each other.
i am sure, said she, i cried for two days together when colonel miller s regiment went away.
bennet had married, economy was held to be perfectly useless; for, of course, they were to have a son.
i fancy, lizzy, that obstinacy is the real defect of his character, after all.
but there is one of her sisters sitting down just behind you, who is very pretty, and i dare say very agreeable.
you may, in fact, carry a very favourable report of us into hertfordshire, my dear cousin.
she had turned away; but on hearing herself called, though in a voice which proved it to be mr.
forster, and the probability of her being yet more imprudent with such a companion at brighton, where the temptations must be greater than at home.
nay, cried bingley, this is too much, to remember at night all the foolish things that were said in the morning.
i dislike it very much, he replied; but it must be done.
come here, child, cried her father as she appeared.
bennet, we shall have her at netherfield at last!
how can you be so silly, cried her mother, as to think of such a thing, in all this dirt!
i have no right to give my opinion, said wickham, as to his being agreeable or otherwise.
cried he, turning towards her.
as for myself, it is many, many years since i first began to think of him in a very different manner.
the idea lasted while a turning in the walk concealed him from their view; the turning past, he was immediately before them.
i remain, dear sir, with respectful compliments to your lady and daughters, your well-wisher and friend, william collins.
was a wonder which introduced the discussion of their affairs.
we have heard nothing from town.
she wrote even to jane on the occasion, to express her delight, and repeat all her former professions of regard.
this is the estimation in which you hold me!
gardiner, i really should not have thought that he could have behaved in so cruel a way by anybody as he has done by poor wickham.
the feelings of the person who wrote and the person who received it are now so widely different from what they were then, that every unpleasant circumstance attending it ought to be forgotten.
you can now have nothing further to say, she resentfully answered.
she longed to inquire of the housekeeper whether her master were really absent, but had not courage for it.
he merely added, that he should not write again, till he had something of importance to mention.
do not consider me now as an elegant female intending to plague you, but as a rational creature speaking the truth from her heart.
i do, i do like him, she replied, with tears in her eyes; i love him.
oh, but the gentlemen will have mr.
they met several times, for there was much to be discussed.
if i were not afraid of judging harshly, i should be almost tempted to say, that there is a strong appearance of duplicity in all this.
words were insufficient for the elevation of his feelings; and he was obliged to walk about the room, while elizabeth tried to unite civility and truth in a few short sentences.
darcy has not made him just to you.
i am almost the nearest relation he has in the world, and am entitled to know all his dearest concerns.
he declared himself to have been totally unsuspicious of her sister s attachment; and she could not help remembering what charlotte s opinion had always been.
i had once some thoughts of fixing in town myself, for i am fond of superior society; but i did not feel quite certain that the air of london would agree with lady lucas.
i often think, said she, that there is nothing so bad as parting with one s friends.
he does not exactly recollect the circumstances, though he has heard them from mr.
and your defect is a propensity to hate everybody.
lydia was a stout, well-grown girl of fifteen, with a fine complexion and good-humoured countenance; a favourite with her mother, whose affection had brought her into public at an early age.
her sisters were uneasy for her, but her mother was delighted.
true; and nobody can ever be introduced in a ball-room.
gardiner left them soon after breakfast.
hurst and miss bingley; and elizabeth was convinced that they held her in contempt for it.
darcy, who sat opposite to them.
elizabeth was not surprised at it, as jane had written the direction remarkably ill.
but your arts and allurements may, in a moment of infatuation, have made him forget what he owes to himself and to all his family.
she wrote also with great pleasure of her brother s being an inmate of mr.
miss de bourgh was pale and sickly: her features, though not plain, were insignificant; and she spoke very little, except in a low voice, to mrs.
for what do we live, but to make sport for our neighbours, and laugh at them in our turn?
they had not long separated when miss bingley came towards her, and, with an expression of civil disdain, thus accosted her, so, miss eliza, i hear you are quite delighted with george wickham?
how can you contrive to write so even?
you know, sister, we agreed long ago never to mention a word about it.
it was then disclosed in the following manner.
but how did he account for it?
did you see him while you were at lambton?
wickham; no, i certainly am not.
i am particularly unlucky in meeting with a person so well able to expose my real character, in a part of the world where i had hoped to pass myself off with some degree of credit.
her home and her housekeeping, her parish and her poultry, and all their dependent concerns, had not yet lost their charms.
and what am i to do on the occasion?
i believe, ma am, i may safely promise you never to dance with him.
their other engagements were few, as the style of living of the neighbourhood in general was beyond the collinses reach.
and so, darcy did everything; made up the match, gave the money, paid the fellow s debts, and got him his commission!
kitty simpered and smiled, and hoped her turn was coming soon.
oh, thoughtless, thoughtless lydia!
but there seems indelicacy in directing his attentions towards her so soon after this event.
bennet and his daughters saw all the advantages of wickham s removal from the shire, as clearly as mr.
yes, replied wickham; his estate there is a noble one.
it was really a very handsome thought.
in the second place, it is rash, i think, to conclude that an actual mr.
darcy could have such boundless influence.
they had nothing to accuse him of but pride; pride he probably had, and if not, it would certainly be imputed by the inhabitants of a small market town where the family did not visit.
bennet to her husband, and all the others equally well married, i shall have nothing to wish for.
jenkinson was arranging miss de bourgh s footstool, that she said, mr.
if he had been so very agreeable, he would have talked to mrs.
bennet was quite disconcerted.
what a delightful library you have at pemberley, mr.
a little sea-bathing would set me up for ever.
who are your uncles and aunts?
she represented to her sister, as forcibly as possible, what she felt on the subject, and had soon the pleasure of seeing its happy effect.
ever since i have known it i have been most anxious to acknowledge to you how gratefully i feel it.
his anxiety for jane was evident, and his attentions to herself most pleasing; and they prevented her feeling herself so much an intruder as she believed she was considered by the others.
you have employed your time much better.
as the weather was fine, they had a pleasant walk of about half a mile across the park.
indeed, replied elizabeth, i am heartily sorry for him; but he has other feelings which will probably soon drive away his regard for me.
he addressed himself directly to miss bennet with a polite congratulation; mr.
as she pronounced these words, mr.
in this manner lady catherine talked on till they were at the door of the carriage, when, turning hastily round, she added, i take no leave of you, miss bennet.
the rapture of lydia on this occasion, her adoration of mrs.
she then changed the discourse to one more gratifying to each, and on which there could be no difference of sentiment.
mary, however, continued to console herself with such kind of moral extractions from the evil before them.
miss eliza bennet, said miss bingley, despises cards.
jane, who was not so light, nor so much in the habit of running as elizabeth, soon lagged behind, while her sister, panting for breath, came up with him, and eagerly cried out, oh, papa, what news?
added elizabeth; safe from a connection imprudent as to fortune.
upon my word, i cannot exactly explain the matter darcy must speak for himself.
colonel forster gives us reason to expect him here soon.
as soon as they were gone, elizabeth walked out to recover her spirits; or, in other words, to dwell without interruption on those subjects which must deaden them more.
he was most highly esteemed by mr.
nobody can tell what i suffer!
and it was not wholly without foundation.
away ran the girls, too eager to get in to have time for speech.
miss bingley s letter arrived, and put an end to doubt.
i will not be in a hurry to believe myself his first object.
darcy would no more suffer him to call on jane in such a part of london!
that he had been concerned in the measures taken to separate mr.
the consequence of it is, that lady lucas will have a daughter married before i have, and that longbourn estate is just as much entailed as ever.
she is a very good kind of girl, i believe.
bennet; and if i were to see you at it, i should take away your bottle directly.
bennet had no more to say; and lady lucas, who had been long yawning at the repetition of delights which she saw no likelihood of sharing, was left to the comforts of cold ham and chicken.
but who could have foreseen such an attention as this?
elizabeth made no answer, and took her place in the set, amazed at the dignity to which she was arrived in being allowed to stand opposite to mr.
reynolds anticipated miss darcy s delight, when she should enter the room.
in such cases, a woman has not often much beauty to think of.
why, especially, when you called, did you look as if you did not care about me?
and then you have added so much to it yourself you are always buying books.
lydia talked incessantly of lottery tickets, of the fish she had lost and the fish she had won; and mr.
wickham will soon be gone; and, therefore, it will not signify to anybody here what he really is.
bingley and his sisters on the elegance of their entertainment, and the hospitality and politeness which had marked their behaviour to their guests.
collins, in describing the civility of mr.
he walked away again immediately, and she was left to fret over her own want of presence of mind: charlotte tried to console her.
bennet, and prepared for backgammon.
elizabeth accepted their company, and the three young ladies set off together.
are you much acquainted with mr.
with the mention of derbyshire, there were many ideas connected.
come, kitty, i want you upstairs.
they were to be off as soon as possible.
my dear charlotte and i have but one mind and one way of thinking.
upon my word i say no more here than i might say in any house in the neighbourhood, except netherfield.
there i have saved you the trouble of accounting for it; and really, all things considered, i begin to think it perfectly reasonable.
the dinner, too, in its turn, was highly admired; and he begged to know to which of his fair cousins the excellence of its cookery was owing.
lady catherine is far from requiring that elegance of dress in us which becomes herself and daughter.
when denny, and wickham, and pratt, and two or three more of the men came in, they did not know him in the least.
they were always moving from place to place in quest of a cheap situation, and always spending more than they ought.
you are determined to ruin him in the opinion of all his friends, and make him the contempt of the world.
did you go by the village of kympton?
after sitting for a moment in silence, she said, very stiffly, to elizabeth, i hope you are well, miss bennet.
you may well warn me against such an evil.
there certainly was some great mismanagement in the education of those two young men.
she was on the point of continuing her walk, when she caught a glimpse of a gentleman within the sort of grove which edged the park: he was moving that way; and fearful of its being mr.
for you are a young lady of deep reflection, i know, and read great books, and make extracts.
it makes me very nervous and poorly, to be thwarted so in my own family, and to have neighbours who think of themselves before anybody else.
collins; but i do not think there would have been any fun in it.
yet time and her aunt moved slowly and her patience and her ideas were nearly worn out before the tête-à-tête was over.
then too she is a perfectly natural girl.
they could describe an entertainment with accuracy, relate an anecdote with humour, and laugh at their acquaintance with spirit.
you need not distress yourself.
at present i have not room to do them justice.
imprudent as a marriage between mr.
lady catherine de bourgh s attention to his wishes, and consideration for his comfort, appeared very remarkable.
i mean that no man in his proper senses would marry lydia on so slight a temptation as one hundred a year during my life, and fifty after i am gone.
and a special licence you must and shall be married by a special licence.
i had not been long in hertfordshire before i saw, in common with others, that bingley preferred your elder sister to any other young woman in the country.
to the rest of the family they paid little attention; avoiding mrs.
how long has she been such a favourite?
the whole of what elizabeth had already heard, his claims on mr.
colonel fitzwilliam was no longer an object.
darcy s letter, nor explain to her sister how sincerely she had been valued by his friend.
she followed her father to the fireplace, and they both sat down.
it was not often that she could turn her eyes on mr.
bennet followed her, saying, i am quite sorry, lizzy, that you should be forced to have that disagreeable man all to yourself; but i hope you will not mind it.
elizabeth, who knew this to be levelled at mr.
oh, cried miss bingley, charles writes in the most careless way imaginable.
after pausing on this point a considerable while, she once more continued to read.
the dinner was as well dressed as any i ever saw.
collins, she could not help asking him whether he intended to accept mr.
but, luckily, he came back again in ten minutes time, and then we all set out.
bennet and her daughters apologized most civilly for lydia s interruption, and promised that it should not occur again, if he would resume his book; but mr.
do not you want to know who has taken it?
wickham, and of seeing a confirmation of everything in mr.
and even mary could assure her family that she had no disinclination for it.
merely to the illustration of your character, said she, endeavouring to shake off her gravity.
and do you really love him quite well enough?
wickham was perfectly friendly; on his side even more.
their visitors were not to remain above ten days with them.
they could talk of nothing but officers; and mr.
she began now to comprehend that he was exactly the man who, in disposition and talents, would most suit her.
gardiner were half a quarter of a mile behind.
he even looked at her with a smile of affected incredulity.
she related the subjects of the pictures, the dimensions of the rooms, and the price of the furniture in vain.
i am glad he dines here on tuesday.
yes, i have had a letter from him by express.
jane and elizabeth attempted to explain to her the nature of an entail.
no arguments shall be wanting on my part, that can alleviate so severe a misfortune; or that may comfort you, under a circumstance that must be, of all others, most afflicting to a parent s mind.
her thoughts were instantly driven back to the time when mr.
what i have to say relates to poor lydia.
oh, how heartily did she grieve over every ungracious sensation she had ever encouraged, every saucy speech she had ever directed towards him!
but his anger, i am persuaded, lasted no longer than he remained in any doubt of your sister s sentiments.
i must have my share in the conversation, if you are speaking of music.
a military life is not what i was intended for, but circumstances have now made it eligible.
bennet was privileged to whisper it to mrs.
with such rivals for the notice of the fair as mr.
when the gentlemen rose to go away, mrs.
darcy was punctual in his return, and, as lydia informed you, attended the wedding.
elizabeth again, and more seriously, assured her of its truth.
and what is fifty miles of good road?
lizzy, said he, i was going to look for you: come into my room.
in the gallery there were many family portraits, but they could have little to fix the attention of a stranger.
you must write again very soon, and praise him a great deal more than you did in your last.
and tell my dear lydia not to give any directions about her clothes till she has seen me, for she does not know which are the best warehouses.
we have dined nine times at rosings, besides drinking tea there twice!
we are each of an unsocial, taciturn disposition, unwilling to speak, unless we expect to say something that will amaze the whole room, and be handed down to posterity with all the éclat of a proverb.
she was now, on being settled at home, at leisure to observe the real state of her sister s spirits.
but the misfortune of speaking with bitterness is a most natural consequence of the prejudices i had been encouraging.
darcy s eyes were fixed on her.
they saw him often, and to his other recommendations was now added that of general unreserve.
and his sisters are charming women.
darcy improves on acquaintance.
but it must not, shall not be!
towards him i have been kinder than towards myself.
their names are, in chronological order, elizabeth bennet, diana vernon, argemone lavington, beatrix esmond, and barbara grant.
he had never had the slightest suspicion.
there was neither in figure nor face any likeness between the ladies.
my brother and the gentlemen are to dine with the officers.
long before it had taken place, my opinion of you was decided.
bennet, for anything about the entail.
you taught me a lesson, hard indeed at first, but most advantageous.
i know you will contrive it all.
darcy, who took her so much by surprise in his application for her hand, that, without knowing what she did, she accepted him.
i have scarcely any hesitation in saying that she will include you and my sister maria in every invitation with which she honours us during your stay here.
elizabeth did not know what to make of it.
the families who had been in town for the winter came back again, and summer finery and summer engagements arose.
collins was settled near her family.
once or twice she could discern a faint blush; but in general charlotte wisely did not hear.
miss bennet, i am shocked and astonished.
bennet with a degree of civility which made her two daughters ashamed, especially when contrasted with the cold and ceremonious politeness of her courtesy and address of his friend.
i felt a little uneasy a little fearful of my sister s happiness with him in marriage, because i knew that his conduct had not been always quite right.
in the absence of jane, he always attached himself to elizabeth for the pleasure of talking of her; and when bingley was gone, jane constantly sought the same means of relief.
where does discretion end, and avarice begin?
i know you do: and it is that which makes the wonder.
no, that i am sure i shall not: and i think it was very impertinent of him to write to you at all, and very hypocritical.
will you do me the honour of reading that letter?
yes; she will remain there till christmas.
and their mother had the satisfaction of knowing, that she should be able to show her married daughter in the neighbourhood, before she was banished to the north.
she had better have stayed at home, cried elizabeth: perhaps she meant well, but, under such a misfortune as this, one cannot see too little of one s neighbours.
let me do it without further loss of time.
and what claims has lydia, what attractions has she beyond youth, health, and good humour, that could make him for her sake forego every chance of benefiting himself by marrying well?
not that i have much pleasure, indeed, in talking to anybody.
i have not been used to submit to any person s whims.
and then, said she, if that very improbable event should ever take place, i shall merely be able to tell what bingley may tell in a much more agreeable manner himself.
for the liveliness of your mind i did.
collins, gratefully accepted, and immediately ordered.
bennet could have no hesitation in acceding to the proposal before him.
but on the third morning after his arrival in hertfordshire, she saw him from her dressing-room window enter the paddock, and ride towards the house.
clement s, because wickham s lodgings were in that parish.
i can answer your question, said fitzwilliam, without applying to him.
the party did not supply much conversation.
i can remember some expressions which might justly make you hate me.
oh, single, my dear, to be sure!
implacable resentment is a shade in a character.
neither jane nor elizabeth were comfortable on this subject.
oh, certainly, said elizabeth, though burning with curiosity; we will ask you no questions.
no officer is ever to enter my house again, nor even to pass through the village.
elizabeth said as little to either as civility would allow, and sat down again to her work, with an eagerness which it did not often command.
your uncle is as much surprised as i am; and nothing but the belief of your being a party concerned would have allowed him to act as he has done.
you were not by, when i told mamma, and the others, all about it.
at length, in a voice of forced calmness, he said, and this is all the reply which i am to have the honour of expecting!
when i wrote that letter, replied darcy, i believed myself perfectly calm and cool; but i am since convinced that it was written in a dreadful bitterness of spirit.
that would be a good scheme, said elizabeth, if you were sure that they would not offer to send her home.
i should have been most in love with beatrix and argemone; i should, i think, for mere occasional companionship, have preferred diana and barbara.
they must have seen them together for ever.
no, lizzy, that is what i do not choose.
her heart had been but slightly touched, and her vanity was satisfied with believing that she would have been his only choice, had fortune permitted it.
before any answer could arrive from mr.
and will you promise me never to enter into such an engagement?
you are all kindness, madam; but i believe we must abide by our original plan.
you used us abominably ill, answered mrs.
but here, by carrying with me one ceaseless source of regret in my sister s absence, i may reasonably hope to have all my expectations of pleasure realized.
but if he returns no more this winter, my choice will never be required.
will you allow me, or do i ask too much, to introduce my sister to your acquaintance during your stay at lambton?
one does not know what to think.
a long dispute followed this declaration; but mr.
oh, cried elizabeth, i am exceedingly diverted.
bennet, however, with the assistance of her five daughters, could ask on the subject, was sufficient to draw from her husband any satisfactory description of mr.
my dear, dear lizzy, i would, i do congratulate you; but are you certain forgive the question are you quite certain that you can be happy with him?
jane looked at elizabeth with surprise and concern.
elizabeth, you are not serious now.
she then hastened away to her mother, who had purposely broken up the card-party, and was sitting upstairs with kitty.
they can only wish his happiness; and if he is attached to me no other woman can secure it.
and so, you like this man s sisters, too, do you?
and till colonel forster came himself, not one of you entertained a doubt, i suppose, of their being really married?
bingley had danced with her twice, and she had been distinguished by his sisters.
he had not been long seated before he complimented mrs.
but she had chosen it with her eyes open; and though evidently regretting that her visitors were to go, she did not seem to ask for compassion.
hurst, who had married a man of more fashion than fortune, less disposed to consider his house as her home when it suited her.
i have heard much of your master s fine person, said mrs.
that would be the greatest misfortune of all!
she cried: this is delightful indeed!
of what he has particularly accused me i am ignorant; but of the truth of what i shall relate i can summon more than one witness of undoubted veracity.
certainly, he replied, biting his lips.
elizabeth was excessively disappointed: she had set her heart on seeing the lakes; and still thought there might have been time enough.
i cannot blame myself for having done thus much.
these parties were acceptable to all; to avoid a family circle was even more desirable to such as did think than such as did not.
shall we ask him why a man of sense and education, and who has lived in the world, is ill-qualified to recommend himself to strangers?
she endeavoured to persuade herself that she did not regret it; but she could no longer be blind to miss bingley s inattention.
what pin-money, what jewels, what carriages you will have!
what made you so shy of me, when you first called, and afterwards dined here?
their manners are not equal to his.
to this discovery succeeded some others equally mortifying.
after breakfast, the girls walked to meryton, to inquire if mr.
lizzy is only headstrong in such matters as these.
he keeps a man-servant, does he?
to yield readily easily to the persuasion of a friend is no merit with you.
these two girls had been above an hour in the place, happily employed in visiting an opposite milliner, watching the sentinel on guard, and dressing a salad and cucumber.
you may ask questions which i shall not choose to answer.
she had been graciously pleased to approve of both the discourses which he had already had the honour of preaching before her.
collins arrived on tuesday, addressed to their father, and written with all the solemnity of gratitude which a twelve-month s abode in the family might have prompted.
it has been coming on so gradually, that i hardly know when it began; but i believe i must date it from my first seeing his beautiful grounds at pemberley.
but still he would be her husband.
if it were not allowable for him to gain my affections, because i had no money, what occasion could there be for making love to a girl whom he did not care about, and who was equally poor?
that is not an unnatural surmise, said fitzwilliam; but it is lessening the honour of my cousin s triumph very sadly.
i shall not go away till you have given me the assurance i require.
then addressing her daughter, oh, my dear, dear jane, i am so happy!
only think what an establishment it would be for one of them.
jane had already written a few lines to her sister, to announce their safe arrival in london; and when she wrote again, elizabeth hoped it would be in her power to say something of the bingleys.
and yet, upon my honour, i believed what i said of myself to be true, and i believe it at this moment.
there was no want of discourse.
and what sort of table do they keep?
the acknowledged lovers talked and laughed; the unacknowledged were silent.
my aunt philips wants you so to get husbands you can t think.
as her successor in that house, she regarded her with jealous abhorrence.
i know how much you dislike him.
now and then they were honoured with a call from her ladyship, and nothing escaped her observation that was passing in the room during these visits.
his former acquaintance had been numerous; but since he had been in the militia, it did not appear that he was on terms of particular friendship with any of them.
a scheme of which every part promises delight can never be successful; and general disappointment is only warded off by the defence of some little peculiar vexation.
we must not make him desperate.
collins had a compliment and an allusion to throw in here, which were kindly smiled on by the mother and daughter.
but perhaps he may be a little whimsical in his civilities, replied her uncle.
bennet; and i am glad to find that you do not depend on her serving you.
i never in my life saw anything more elegant than their dresses.
elizabeth saw what he was doing, and at the first convenient pause turned to him with an arch smile, and said, you mean to frighten me, mr.
she inquired after his sister, but could do no more.
how could his will be disregarded?
pardon me for interrupting you, madam, cried mr.
the world is blinded by his fortune and consequence, or frightened by his high and imposing manners, and sees him only as he chooses to be seen.
you cannot be more than twenty, i am sure, therefore you need not conceal your age.
but if we do not venture, somebody else will; and after all, mrs.
but of course she did not mention my name to you.
when first he entered the corps, she was ready enough to admire him; but so we all were.
the mischief of neglect and mistaken indulgence towards such a girl oh!
i think i have heard you say that their uncle is an attorney in meryton?
and are they upon such terms as for her to disclose the real truth?
jane was not deceived, but she was affected; and though feeling no reliance on her, could not help writing her a much kinder answer than she knew was deserved.
elizabeth could safely say that it was a great happiness where that was the case, and with equal sincerity could add, that she firmly believed and rejoiced in his domestic comforts.
but i am willing to hope the best, and that his character has been misunderstood.
lady catherine approached, and, after listening for a few minutes, said to darcy, miss bennet would not play at all amiss if she practised more, and could have the advantage of a london master.
take care, lizzy; that speech savours strongly of disappointment.
let me hear from you very soon.
i am perfectly ready, i assure you, to keep my engagement; and, when your sister is recovered, you shall, if you please, name the very day of the ball.
the principal purport of his letter was to inform them, that mr.
very true; and if i had my will we should.
she represented to him all the improprieties of lydia s general behaviour, the little advantage she could derive from the friendship of such a woman as mrs.
bennet to return to longbourn as soon as he could, to the great consolation of his sister, who considered it as the only security for her husband s not being killed in a duel.
darcy so deficient in the appearance of it as you used to do.
she got up and ran out of the room; and returned no more, till she heard them passing through the hall to the dining-parlour.
and in that sense miss austen certainly was one.
at that moment they were met from another walk by mrs.
i cannot think of it without abhorrence.
she had also to anticipate how her visit would pass, the quiet tenour of their usual employments, the vexatious interruptions of mr.
but, perhaps, his sister does as well for the present; and, as she is under his sole care, he may do what he likes with her.
he has given in all his debts; i hope at least he has not deceived us.
her inquiries after her sister were not very favourably answered.
my mother is tolerably well, i trust; though her spirits are greatly shaken.
speak to lizzy about it yourself.
he was, beyond comparison, the pleasantest man: he certainly admired her, and his situation in life was most eligible; but, to counterbalance these advantages, mr.
if it is designedly done, they cannot be justified; but i have no idea of there being so much design in the world as some persons imagine.
gardiner expressed a wish of going round the whole park, but feared it might be beyond a walk.
it seems likely to have been a desirable match for jane, said she.
my father and mother knew nothing of that; they only felt how imprudent a match it must be.
her hopes were answered; jane had not been gone long before it rained hard.
i am afraid i interrupt your solitary ramble, my dear sister?
if gratitude and esteem are good foundations of affection, elizabeth s change of sentiment will be neither improbable nor faulty.
he had always intended to visit him, though to the last always assuring his wife that he should not go; and till the evening after the visit was paid she had no knowledge of it.
but, no, recollecting herself, that could never be; my uncle and aunt would have been lost to me; i should not have been allowed to invite them.
the elder miss bennets alone were still able to eat, drink, and sleep, and pursue the usual course of their employments.
i expected to find a more reasonable young woman.
but perhaps you have been too pleasantly engaged to think of any third person, in which case you may be sure of my pardon.
such amiable qualities must speak for themselves.
the earliest assurance of it; and, after making his bow as the carriage turned into the park, hurried home with the great intelligence.
gardiner was so little to be trusted.
did he know of their intending to go off?
my dear lizzy, where can you have been walking to?
cried wickham, with a look which did not escape her.
these are conditions which, considering everything, i had no hesitation in complying with, as far as i thought myself privileged, for you.
stupid men are the only ones worth knowing, after all.
the whist party soon afterwards breaking up, the players gathered round the other table, and mr.
you may depend upon my seeking no further.
oh, said she, i heard you before; but i could not immediately determine what to say in reply.
no scheme could have been more agreeable to elizabeth, and her acceptance of the invitation was most ready and grateful.
he really believed that, were it not for the inferiority of her connections, he should be in some danger.
why could not he keep on quarrelling with you, as his father did before him?
bennet indeed said little; but the ladies were ready enough to talk, and mr.
darcy by character perfectly well.
but the person who advanced was now near enough to see her, and stepping forward with eagerness, pronounced her name.
but it is, returned she; for mrs.
there can be no doubt of that.
he had not a temper to bear the sort of competition in which we stood the sort of preference which was often given me.
bingley, and under your orders.
observing his second daughter employed in trimming a hat, he suddenly addressed her with, i hope mr.
i thought too ill of him to invite him to pemberley, or admit his society in town.
elizabeth, with a triumphant sensation, looked towards his friend.
no sentiment of shame gave a damp to her triumph.
when i last saw her, she was not very promising.
he did not repeat his persuasion of their not marrying, and from that i am inclined to hope he might have been misunderstood before.
it has been most unconsciously done, however, and i hope will be of short duration.
my affections and wishes are unchanged; but one word from you will silence me on this subject for ever.
collins s conversation to herself.
his diffidence had prevented his depending on his own judgment in so anxious a case, but his reliance on mine made everything easy.
the coach, therefore, took them the first stage of their journey, and brought its master back to longbourn.
this match, to which you have the presumption to aspire, can never take place.
there is no danger of wickham s marrying mary king there s for you!
she is my youngest girl but one.
there could not exist in the world two men over whom mr.
next time you call, said she, i hope we shall be more lucky.
when that business was over, he applied to miss bingley and elizabeth for the indulgence of some music.
bennet; and nothing can clear mr.
i am going to open the instrument, eliza, and you know what follows.
kitty stared at him, and lydia exclaimed.
my dear aunt, how could you think of it?
i never heard of her existence till the day before yesterday.
darcy, that i expressed myself uncommonly well just now, when i was teasing colonel forster to give us a ball at meryton?
my sole dependence was on you; and i am sure nobody else will believe me, if you do not.
you are a gentleman s daughter.
bennet, and which she never failed to contradict as a most scandalous falsehood.
i told him of all that had occurred to make my former interference in his affairs absurd and impertinent.
she seems a very pleasant young woman, said bingley.
yes, she will do for him very well.
bennet was alone, than she likewise began on the subject, calling on miss lucas for her compassion, and entreating her to persuade her friend lizzy to comply with the wishes of her family.
you forget that i have made no answer.
is that his design in settling here?
the officers of the shire copyright 1894 by george allen.
well, now let us be quite comfortable and snug, and talk and laugh all the way home.
detection could not be in your power, and suspicion certainly not in your inclination.
bennet could hardly contain herself.
but in spite of all this fine talking, my dear lizzy, you may rest perfectly assured that your uncle would never have yielded, if we had not given him credit for another interest in the affair.
in what imaginary act of friendship can you here defend yourself?
it vexed her to see him expose himself to such a man.
it would not be easy, indeed, to catch their expression; but their colour and shape, and the eyelashes, so remarkably fine, might be copied.
she was not rendered formidable by silence: but whatever she said was spoken in so authoritative a tone as marked her self-importance, and brought mr.
do not involve yourself, or endeavour to involve him, in an affection which the want of fortune would make so very imprudent.
collins, or any congratulations to elizabeth from his wife, the longbourn family heard that the collinses were come themselves to lucas lodge.
collins returned most punctually on the monday fortnight, but his reception at longbourn was not quite so gracious as it had been on his first introduction.
they will have nothing else to do.
the entreaties of several copyright 1894 by george allen.
the younger ones out before the elder are married!
you forced me into visiting him last year, and promised, if i went to see him, he should marry one of my daughters.
bennet seemed wholly disinclined at present to leave london, and promised to write again very soon.
he did everything best in the world; and she was sure he would kill more birds on the first of september than anybody else in the country.
from this day you must be a stranger to one of your parents.
let me congratulate you on a very important conquest.
she replied in the affirmative.
elizabeth then contrived to sit by her aunt.
from an unwillingness to confess how much her intimacy with mr.
how acutely did she now feel it!
her father was walking about the room, looking grave and anxious.
colonel forster came yesterday, having left brighton the day before, not many hours after the express.
wickham, after a few moments, touched his hat a salutation which mr.
then taking the disengaged arm of mr.
is not general incivility the very essence of love?
bennet, and they gave way only to the greater distress of mr.
philips s house, and then made their bows, in spite of miss lydia s pressing entreaties that they would come in, and even in spite of mrs.
i cannot catch their tone of conversation, or appear interested in their concerns, as i often see done.
elizabeth s spirits soon rising to playfulness again, she wanted mr.
consoled by this resolution, she was the better able to bear her husband s incivility; though it was very mortifying to know that her neighbours might all see mr.
but he is a liberal master, i suppose, and that, in the eye of a servant, comprehends every virtue.
her father had been an attorney in meryton, and had left her four thousand pounds.
laugh as much as you choose, but you will not laugh me out of my opinion.
dawson oh, your father, of course, may spare you, if your mother can.
not a soul knew of it, but colonel and mrs.
bennet spent the morning together, as had been agreed on.
to be sure you know no actual good of me but nobody thinks of that when they fall in love.
no, said darcy, i have made no such pretension.
she seems perfectly happy, however; and, in a prudential light, it is certainly a very good match for her.
lady catherine has been of infinite use, which ought to make her happy, for she loves to be of use.
bennet treasured up the hint, and trusted that she might soon have two daughters married; and the man whom she could not bear to speak of the day before, was now high in her good graces.
i only hope they may have half my good luck.
jane should therefore make the most of every half hour in which she can command his attention.
their taking her home, and affording her their personal protection and countenance, is such a sacrifice to her advantage as years of gratitude cannot enough acknowledge.
only genius could have made charlotte what she is, yet not disagreeable; wickham what he is, without investing him either with a cheap don juanish attractiveness or a disgusting rascality.
i rather wonder now at your knowing any.
darcy than he has received; and i am sorry to say that by his account, as well as his sister s, mr.
elizabeth longed to observe that mr.
and will you give yourself the trouble of carrying similar assurances to his creditors in meryton, of whom i shall subjoin a list, according to his information?
could you expect me to rejoice in the inferiority of your connections?
charlotte is an excellent manager, i dare say.
when coffee was over, colonel fitzwilliam reminded elizabeth of having promised to play to him; and she sat down directly to the instrument.
your great men often are; and therefore i shall not take him at his word about fishing, as he might change his mind another day, and warn me off his grounds.
i will read you the passage which particularly hurts me.
let me know everything that i am to know without delay.
collins s letter had done away much of her ill-will, and she was preparing to see him with a degree of composure which astonished her husband and daughters.
it was melancholy to leave her to such society!
elizabeth made no answer, and walked on, her heart swelling with indignation.
my father s opinion of me does me the greatest honour; and i should be miserable to forfeit it.
hurst called them to order, with bitter complaints of their inattention to what was going forward.
said charlotte, as soon as he was gone.
his countenance, voice, and manner, had established him at once in the possession of every virtue.
miss bingley did the same; and mrs.
the officers may not be so pleasant in general s regiment.
she blushed at the very idea; and thought it would be better to speak openly to her aunt, than to run such a risk.
bingley her sister s being in town.
your mother must have been quite a slave to your education.
when the party broke up, lydia returned with mrs.
miss bennet s pleasing manners grew on the good-will of mrs.
his air was grave and stately, and his manners were very formal.
hunsford, near westerham, kent, 15th october.
i must beg, therefore, to be importuned no further on the subject.
his understanding and temper, though unlike her own, would have answered all her wishes.
she had gained her point, and had time to consider of it.
he called it, therefore, his duty to step forward, and endeavour to remedy an evil which had been brought on by himself.
colonel fitzwilliam had called at the parsonage more than once during the time, but mr.
elizabeth could but just affect concern in missing him; she really rejoiced at it.
since her father s death her home has been london, where a lady lives with her, and superintends her education.
when they ascended the steps to the hall, maria s alarm was every moment increasing, and even sir william did not look perfectly calm.
from herself to jane, from jane to bingley, her thoughts were in a line which soon brought to her recollection that mr.
darcy had walked away to another part of the room.
i cannot give you credit for any philosophy of the kind.
for she only came, i suppose, to tell us the collinses were well.
but does not jane correspond with his sister?
the agitation and tears which the subject occasioned brought on a headache; and it grew so much worse towards the evening that, added to her unwillingness to see mr.
if you believed it impossible to be true, said elizabeth, colouring with astonishment and disdain, i wonder you took the trouble of coming so far.
she did not choose it, said her daughter; she would go.
bingley s attention to her sister, elizabeth was far from suspecting that she was herself becoming an object of some interest in the eyes of his friend.
bennet, who assured him, with some asperity, that they were very well able to keep a good cook, and that her daughters had nothing to do in the kitchen.
darcy, there is a very fine old saying, which everybody here is of course familiar with keep your breath to cool your porridge, and i shall keep mine to swell my song.
it distressed her a little, and she was quite glad to find herself at the gate in the pales opposite the parsonage.
they are generally long; but whether always charming, it is not for me to determine.
bennet s sour looks and ill-natured remarks might have been enough to drive happiness away.
bennet was stirring the fire (and we know how mrs.
gardiner readily promised every assistance in his power.
i see nothing in it but your own wilful ignorance and the malice of mr.
you may possibly wonder why all this was not told you last night.
an union of a different tendency, and precluding the possibility of the other, was soon to be formed in their family.
their engagements at rosings were as frequent during the last week of her stay as they had been at first.
will you give me leave to defer your raptures till i write again?
i certainly have had my share of beauty, but i do not pretend to be anything extraordinary now.
but she is very young: she has never been taught to think on serious subjects; and for the last half year, nay, for a twelvemonth, she has been given up to nothing but amusement and vanity.
austen leigh has given us, in dooming her privately to marry one of mr.
i think she did take this delight, and i do not think at all the worse of her for it as a woman, while she was immensely the better for it as an artist.
he owed a good deal in the town, but his debts of honour were still more formidable.
maria thought speaking out of the question, and the gentlemen did nothing but eat and admire.
he immediately offered to fetch her others; all that his library afforded.
the vague and unsettled suspicions which uncertainty had produced, of what mr.
that is a question which i hardly know how to answer.
his letter was soon despatched; for though dilatory in undertaking business, he was quick in its execution.
collins was walking the whole morning within view of the lodges opening into hunsford lane, in order to have the gentlemen accompanied him.
her manners were pronounced to be very bad indeed, a mixture of pride and impertinence: she had no conversation, no style, no taste, no beauty.
elizabeth longed to explore its windings; but when they had crossed the bridge, and perceived their distance from the house, mrs.
our habits of expense make us too dependent, and there are not many in my rank of life who can afford to marry without some attention to money.
darcy with a very expressive smile.
i feel as if i had never done you justice, or loved you as you deserve.
gardiner s business, on her arrival, was to distribute her presents and describe the newest fashions.
i expected you to stay two months.
bennet; but it is a comfort to think that, whatever of that kind may befall you, you have an affectionate mother who will always make the most of it.
but i know the foundation is unjust.
collins s addresses, by engaging them towards herself.
he had never before supposed that, could wickham be prevailed on to marry his daughter, it would be done with so little inconvenience to himself as by the present arrangement.
shall you like to have such a brother?
how many letters you must have occasion to write in the course of a year!
bingley had not been of age two years when he was tempted, by an accidental recommendation, to look at netherfield house.
have a little compassion on my nerves.
the commendation bestowed on him by mrs.
i have already told her so once, by your desire.
lydia was exceedingly fond of him.
i am quite well, i am only distressed by some dreadful news which i have just received from longbourn.
gardiner had seen pemberley, and known the late mr.
darcy s letter she was in a fair way of soon knowing by heart.
and, if i may mention so delicate a subject, endeavour to check that little something, bordering on conceit and impertinence, which your lady possesses.
i have sent for you on an affair of importance.
she had never seen a place for which nature had done more, or where natural beauty had been so little counteracted by an awkward taste.
you see how continually we are engaged there.
her younger sisters soon began to make interest with her for objects of happiness which she might in future be able to dispense.
your younger sisters must be very young?
upon my word, said her ladyship, you give your opinion very decidedly for so young a person.
i was right, therefore; my last letter had never reached her.
yes; it has often led him to be liberal and generous; to give his money freely, to display hospitality, to assist his tenants, and relieve the poor.
darcy bequeathed me the next presentation of the best living in his gift.
nor i, i am sure, said miss bingley.
collins was to attend them, at the request of mr.
they were able to love each other, even as well as they intended.
cried elizabeth, when she had finished.
i thought i should have broke my heart.
and to be kept back on such a motive!
bingley likes your sister undoubtedly; but he may never do more than like her, if she does not help him on.
and so saying, he turned back with them, and walked towards the house.
had he been a bad prig or a bad coxcomb, he might have been still smarting under his rejection, or suspicious that the girl had come husband-hunting.
how is half such a sum to be repaid?
had i but explained some part of it only some part of what i learnt, to my own family!
elizabeth s mind was now relieved from a very heavy weight; and, after half an hour s quiet reflection in her own room, she was able to join the others with tolerable composure.
there is such an expression of goodness in his countenance!
there is some sense in what he says about the girls, however; and, if he is disposed to make them any amends, i shall not be the person to discourage him.
my aunt s intelligence had given me hope, and i was determined at once to know everything.
neither duty, nor honour, nor gratitude, replied elizabeth, has any possible claim on me, in the present instance.
your reproof, so well applied, i shall never forget: had you behaved in a more gentlemanlike manner.
collins from the guilt of inheriting longbourn.
bingley s carriage immediately, and at length it was settled that their original design of leaving netherfield that morning should be mentioned, and the request made.
all the world are good and agreeable in your eyes.
long, said miss lucas, but i wish he had danced with eliza.
to kitty, however, it does not seem so wholly unexpected.
when dinner was over, she returned directly to jane, and miss bingley began abusing her as soon as she was out of the room.
no one who has ever seen you together can doubt his affection; miss bingley, i am sure, cannot: she is not such a simpleton.
if your feelings are still what they were last april, tell me so at once.
the evening altogether passed off pleasantly to the whole family.
darcy s indifference; and she could do nothing but wonder at such a want of penetration, or fear that, perhaps, instead of his seeing too little, she might have fancied too much.
but this idea was soon banished, and her spirits were very differently affected, when, to her utter amazement, she saw mr.
and you are never to stir out of doors, till you can prove that you have spent ten minutes of every day in a rational manner.
yes; he introduced us to his sister.
to assure you in the most animated language.
she saw, with the creative eye of fancy, the streets of that gay bathing-place covered with officers.
collins could not conceal his apprehension of lady catherine s being rather displeased by her staying at home.
this unfortunate affair will, i fear, prevent my sister s having the pleasure of seeing you at pemberley to-day.
at present i will not say more, but, perhaps, when we are better acquainted he was interrupted by a summons to dinner; and the girls smiled on each other.
well, mamma, said she, when they were all returned to the breakfast-room, and what do you think of my husband?
indeed he has no improper pride.
not perhaps of neglecting his own interest.
he will be forgot, and we shall all be as we were before.
i never heard of such a thing.
and you may be certain that when i have the honour of seeing her again i shall speak in the highest terms of your modesty, economy, and other amiable qualifications.
till elizabeth entered the drawing-room at netherfield, and looked in vain for mr.
soon after their return, a letter was delivered to miss bennet; it came from netherfield, and was opened immediately.
and i wish my collection were larger for your benefit and my own credit; but i am an idle fellow; and though i have not many, i have more than i ever looked into.
wickham was sure to be one; and on these occasions mrs.
miss bennet was therefore established as a sweet girl; and their brother felt authorized by such commendation to think of her as he chose.
she does not disguise from herself or anybody that she resents darcy s first ill-mannered personality with as personal a feeling.
his consenting to marry her is a proof, i will believe, that he is come to a right way of thinking.
he still loves me, and we are engaged.
it is a grievous affair to my poor girls, you must confess.
would they often exclaim in the bitterness of woe.
they entered it in one of its lowest points, and drove for some time through a beautiful wood stretching over a wide extent.
elizabeth was pleased; though when she asked herself the reason, she had very little to say in reply.
i was only confused for the moment, because i felt that i should be looked at.
nothing but concern for elizabeth could enable bingley to keep his countenance.
the soup was fifty times better than what we had at the lucases last week; and even mr.
the quiet, the retirement of such a life, would have answered all my ideas of happiness!
it was hardly enough; but it pleased her.
she is abominably rude to keep charlotte out of doors in all this wind.
she longed to speak, but could think of nothing to say; and after a short silence mrs.
you saw me dance at meryton, i believe, sir.
is there nothing you could take to give you present relief?
the formality, the under-breeding, the meanness, are there; but the portrait is only half alive, and is felt to be even a little unnatural.
bingley expressed great pleasure in the certainty of seeing elizabeth again, having still a great deal to say to her, and many inquiries to make after all their hertfordshire friends.
there were better sense in the sad mechanic exercise of determining the reason of its absence where it is not.
it keeps him in good humour, said she, and i am more obliged to you than i can express.
has it not been industriously circulated by yourselves?
how it could occur a second time, therefore, was very odd!
i do not at all know; but i heard nothing of his going away when i was at netherfield.
by all means, cried bingley; let us hear all the particulars, not forgetting their comparative height and size, for that will have more weight in the argument, miss bennet, than you may be aware of.
he is also handsome, replied elizabeth, which a young man ought likewise to be if he possibly can.
it was acknowledged, however, that he was a liberal man, and did much good among the poor.
i thank you again and again, for not going to the lakes.
elizabeth had the satisfaction of seeing her father taking pains to get acquainted with him; and mr.
compliments always take you by surprise, and me never.
but, on second thoughts, perhaps lizzy could tell us what relations he has now living better than any other person.
my courage always rises with every attempt to intimidate me.
i do not recollect that we did.
she plays and sings all day long.
wickham had received his commission before he left london, and he was to join his regiment at the end of a fortnight.
said jane, as she finished it.
you must give me leave to flatter myself, my dear cousin, that your refusal of my addresses are merely words of course.
when those dances were over, she returned to charlotte lucas, and was in conversation with her, when she found herself suddenly addressed by mr.
everybody is disgusted with his pride.
but i suppose you had no opportunity.
darcy walked off; and elizabeth remained with no very cordial feelings towards him.
lady catherine is a very respectable, sensible woman, indeed, added charlotte, and a most attentive neighbour.
lady catherine s great attentions to mrs.
we have not met since the 26th of november, when we were all dancing together at netherfield.
lady lucas herself has often said so, and envied me jane s beauty.
hurst s gown here she was interrupted again.
we acted with the best intentions.
imprudence or thoughtlessness in money matters would be unpardonable in me.
she was to accompany sir william and his second daughter.
pray do not talk of that odious man.
but i ought to beg his pardon, for i have no right to suppose that bingley was the person meant.
in this quiet way the first fortnight of her visit soon passed away.
i perfectly comprehend your feelings, and have now only to be ashamed of what my own have been.
she would not give him time to reply, but hurrying instantly to her husband, called out, as she entered the library, oh, mr.
what is it you are talking of?
and his answering immediately to the last question, oh, the eldest miss bennet, beyond a doubt: there cannot be two opinions on that point.
oh, my dear lydia, she cried, when shall we meet again?
gardiner, that no consideration with regard to this young man will influence her.
collins, you must send a servant with them.
the longbourn party were the last of all the company to depart; and by a manœuvre of mrs.
he spoke of apprehension and anxiety, but his countenance expressed real security.
and though he exclaimed at the term, she found that it had been pretty much the case.
your coming to longbourn, to see me and my family, said elizabeth coolly, will be rather a confirmation of it if, indeed, such a report is in existence.
he studies too much for words of four syllables.
i am perfectly convinced by it that mr.
the world has been deceived in that respect; and i am happy to say, there will be some little money, even when all his debts are discharged, to settle on my niece, in addition to her own fortune.
darcy with him, and sat down again by her sister.
and of this place, thought she, i might have been mistress!
in talking over their route the evening before, mrs.
the elevation of his feelings.
they were within twenty yards of each other; and so abrupt was his appearance, that it was impossible to avoid his sight.
charlotte did not stay much longer; and elizabeth was then left to reflect on what she had heard.
my beauty you had early withstood, and as for my manners my behaviour to you was at least always bordering on the uncivil, and i never spoke to you without rather wishing to give you pain than not.
i have heard from authority, which i thought as good, that it was left you conditionally only, and at the will of the present patron.
he seldom appeared really animated.
how unlucky that you should have a reasonable answer to give, and that i should be so reasonable as to admit it!
there can be no occasion for your going so soon.
and pray what sort of a guardian do you make?
darcy, was in such misery of shame that she could hardly keep her seat.
darcy approaching them, and at no great distance.
yes; where else can they be so well concealed?
i cannot be so easily reconciled to myself.
i cannot quite agree with you there.
you are all to come to pemberley at christmas.
but, unluckily for her ladyship, its effect had been exactly contrariwise.
bennet, with civil self-command, to miss lucas.
i never heard any harm of her; and i dare say she is one of the most tractable creatures in the world.
when they get to our age, i dare say they will not think about officers any more than we do.
here, consequently, was an inexhaustible subject of discourse.
miss bingley is to live with her brother, and keep his house; and i am much mistaken if we shall not find a very charming neighbour in her.
mary was the only daughter who remained at home; and she was necessarily drawn from the pursuit of accomplishments by mrs.
how delighted miss darcy will be to receive such a letter!
remember, eliza, that he does not know jane s disposition as you do.
his plan did not vary on seeing them.
i have not the smallest objection to explaining them, said he, as soon as she allowed him to speak.
i could not allow myself to conceal that your sister had been in town three months last winter, that i had known it, and purposely kept it from him.
reynolds informed them, that it had been taken in his father s lifetime.
bennet the comfort of having a daughter well married; and she called at longbourn rather oftener than usual to say how happy she was, though mrs.
he is the best landlord, and the best master, said she, that ever lived.
bingley s friend, without being heard by either of them.
lizzy, you must walk out with him again, that he may not be in bingley s way.
i know that you could be neither happy nor respectable, unless you truly esteemed your husband, unless you looked up to him as a superior.
there is but such a quantity of merit between them; just enough to make one good sort of man; and of late it has been shifting about pretty much.
this son was to join in cutting off the entail, as soon as he should be of age, and the widow and younger children would by that means be provided for.
i am confident that she would have performed delightfully.
such i was, from eight to eight-and-twenty; and such i might still have been but for you, dearest, loveliest elizabeth!
your affectionate friend, lydia bennet.
to persuade him against returning into hertfordshire, when that conviction had been given, was scarcely the work of a moment.
bennet found, with amazement and horror, that her husband would not advance a guinea to buy clothes for his daughter.
it is amazing to me, said bingley, how young ladies can have patience to be so very accomplished as they all are.
how could i ever be foolish enough to expect a renewal of his love?
such relief, however, as it was in her power to afford, by the practice of what might be called economy in her own private expenses, she frequently sent them.
he is now gone into the army, she added; but i am afraid he has turned out very wild.
darcy s steward, and of that, i can assure you, he informed me himself.
she wished to discredit it entirely, repeatedly exclaiming, this must be false!
bingley, if he had been imposed on, would have much to suffer when the affair became public.
oh, mary, said she, i wish you had gone with us, for we had such fun!
when lydia went away she promised to write very often and very minutely to her mother and kitty; but her letters were always long expected, and always very short.
i was obliged to confess one thing, which for a time, and not unjustly, offended him.
i must beg to return to the house.
i will go to meryton, said she, as soon as i am dressed, and tell the good, good news to my sister philips.
bennet, who was most anxious to get rid of him, and have his library to himself; for thither mr.
collins changed his mind from jane to elizabeth while mrs.
certainly not, at first; but they are very pleasing women when you converse with them.
such was miss lucas s scheme; and appearances were so favourable, that when they parted at night, she would have felt almost sure of success if he had not been to leave hertfordshire so very soon.
very little was said by either; kitty was too much afraid of him to talk; elizabeth was secretly forming a desperate resolution; and, perhaps, he might be doing the same.
indeed i have, sir, was her answer.
i assure you there is quite as much of that going on in the country as in town.
but when they had withdrawn, he said to her, mrs.
but above all, above respect and esteem, there was a motive within her of good-will which could not be overlooked.
he joined them on their entering the town, and attended them to their aunt s, where his regret and vexation and the concern of everybody were well talked over.
his behaviour to us has, in every respect, been as pleasing as when we were in derbyshire.
i am grieved, indeed, cried darcy: grieved shocked.
darcy before they had known anything of the matter.
perhaps i did not always love him so well as i do now; but in such cases as these a good memory is unpardonable.
if she does not object to it, why should we?
this accounted to elizabeth for mr.
he is now, perhaps, sorry for what he has done, and anxious to re-establish a character.
lady catherine, i have nothing further to say.
she was therefore obliged to seek another branch of the subject, and related, with much bitterness of spirit, and some exaggeration, the shocking rudeness of mr.
we were married, you know, at st.
darcy would never have hazarded such a proposal, if he had not been well assured of his cousin s corroboration.
neither could anything be urged against my father, who, though with some peculiarities, has abilities which mr.
darcy s conduct in it less than infamous, was capable of a turn which must make him entirely blameless throughout the whole.
yes, i really believe darcy does take care of him in those points where he most wants care.
she had spent six weeks with great enjoyment; and the pleasure of being with charlotte, and the kind attention she had received, must make her feel the obliged.
her heart was divided between concern for her sister and resentment against all others.
these are heavy misfortunes, replied elizabeth.
yes, very different; but i think mr.
how shall i bear so much happiness?
no; it would have been strange if they had.
her understanding excellent, her mind improved, and her manners captivating.
he has children of his own, and may have more.
a low phaeton with a nice little pair of ponies would be the very thing.
i am sorry for her, because, with her disposition, she may not get over it immediately.
well, girls, said she, as soon as they were left to themselves, what say you to the day?
it had better have happened to you, lizzy; you would have laughed yourself out of it sooner.
gardiner, wickham had one means of affording pleasure, unconnected with his general powers.
of all his sister s falsehood and contrivance!
he brought it with him for us to see.
they have each their advantages, and i can be equally happy in either.
the goodness of the minor characters in pride and prejudice has been already alluded to, and it makes a detailed dwelling on their beauties difficult in any space, and impossible in this.
was not this some excuse for incivility, if i was uncivil?
though lydia had never been a favourite with them, mr.
fitzwilliam darcy formerly spoken of as a very proud, ill-natured boy.
on distinguishing the ladies of the group the two gentlemen came directly towards them, and began the usual civilities.
lady lucas was a very good kind of woman, not too clever to be a valuable neighbour to mrs.
bingley has not much idea of ever returning to netherfield again?
the prospect of such delights was very cheering, and they parted in mutual good spirits.
if we make haste, said lydia, as they walked along, perhaps we may see something of captain carter, before he goes.
how odious i should think them!
but if i go on i shall displease you by saying what i think of persons you esteem.
hurst had, therefore, nothing to do but to stretch himself on one of the sofas and go to sleep.
if he had another motive, i am sure it would never disgrace him.
at length, however, his civility was so far awakened as to inquire of elizabeth after the health of her family.
oh, you are a great deal too apt, you know, to like people in general.
she paused, and saw with no slight indignation that he was listening with an air which proved him wholly unmoved by any feeling of remorse.
bennet, all amazement, though flattered by having a guest of such high importance, received her with the utmost politeness.
she assured him that no one intended to play, and the silence of the whole party on the subject seemed to justify her.
no i do not know that you were wrong in saying what you did.
take your choice, but you must be satisfied with only one.
you want to tell me, and i have no objection to hearing it.
but i will not be alarmed, though your sister does play so well.
a great deal of good management, depend upon it.
no, no; stay where you are copyright 1894 by george allen.
but you have chosen your fault well.
that she should have walked three miles so early in the day in such dirty weather, and by herself, was almost incredible to mrs.
as soon as i get to town, i shall go to my brother, and make him come home with me to gracechurch street, and then we may consult together as to what is to be done.
between the two eldest and herself especially, there subsisted a very particular regard.
he came, and in such very good time, that the ladies were none of them dressed.
lady catherine s unjustifiable endeavours to separate us were the means of removing all my doubts.
my reasons for believing it are briefly these: it does not appear to me that my hand is unworthy of your acceptance, or that the establishment i can offer would be any other than highly desirable.
is her husband, who is the son of his late father s steward, to be his brother?
at length the parsonage was discernible.
lady catherine, it appeared, had actually taken the trouble of this journey from rosings for the sole purpose of breaking off her supposed engagement with mr.
is your master much at pemberley in the course of the year?
this swiftian quality appears in the present novel as it appears nowhere else in the character of the immortal, the ineffable mr.
i am glad of one thing, that he comes alone; because we shall see the less of him.
i had not the smallest idea of their being ever felt in such a way.
their father then went to the library to write, and the girls walked into the breakfast-room.
her colour changed, and she said no more.
lady catherine seemed pleased.
miss bennet eagerly disclaimed all extraordinary merit, and threw back the praise on her sister s warm affection.
i am the less surprised at what has happened, replied sir william, from that knowledge of what the manners of the great really are, which my situation in life has allowed me to acquire.
will you tell me how long you have loved him?
nothing is more deceitful, said darcy, than the appearance of humility.
the dinner was exceedingly handsome, and there were all the servants, and all the articles of plate which mr.
hurst, merely looked the gentleman; but his friend mr.
her curiosity, however, was unexpectedly relieved.
she will be married at sixteen!
how does georgiana get on, darcy?
his resentment was in proportion to the distress of his circumstances and he was doubtless as violent in his abuse of me to others as in his reproaches to myself.
you are a good girl, he replied, and i have great pleasure in thinking you will be so happily settled.
it was not in their direct road; nor more than a mile or two out of it.
darcy is particularly fond of, that i may have it to-morrow.
but is it certain, absolutely certain?
can you possibly guess, lizzy, who is meant by this?
for heaven s sake, madam, speak lower.
can there be any other opinion on the subject?
wickham s chief object was unquestionably my sister s fortune, which is thirty thousand pounds; but i cannot help supposing that the hope of revenging himself on me was a strong inducement.
you shall not defend her, though it is charlotte lucas.
my aunt, she continued, is going to-morrow into that part of the town, and i shall take the opportunity of calling in grosvenor street.
my dear father, she cried, come back and write immediately.
the first wish of my heart, said she to herself, is never more to be in company with either of them.
he has been accused of many faults at different times; but this is the true one.
pray, my dear aunt, what is the difference in matrimonial affairs, between the mercenary and the prudent motive?
you get none; you are lucky if, discarding two-thirds of what he gives, you can shape a real impression out of the rest.
after listening one morning to their effusions on this subject, mr.
the two gentlemen left rosings the next morning; and mr.
she was a woman of mean understanding, little information, and uncertain temper.
elizabeth read on: i have seen them both.
it must have been a most agreeable surprise to mr.
he is so excessively handsome!
if i had been able, said she, to carry my point in going to brighton with all my family, this would not have happened: but poor dear lydia had nobody to take care of her.
she looked at his two sisters, and saw them making signs of derision at each other, and at darcy, who continued, however, impenetrably grave.
is this a hint to me, lizzy, said her father, to send for the horses?
from the further disadvantage of lydia s society she was of course carefully kept; and though mrs.
her hair so untidy, so blowzy!
i assure you, i feel it exceedingly, said lady catherine; i believe nobody feels the loss of friends so much as i do.
she knew not what to think, or how to account for it.
you might have talked to me more when you came to dinner.
these are the kind of little things which please her ladyship, and it is a sort of attention which i conceive myself peculiarly bound to pay.
darcy is not to be laughed at!
they are young in the ways of the world, and not yet open to the mortifying conviction that handsome young men must have something to live on as well as the plain.
at present i am not in love with mr.
my youngest sister has left all her friends has eloped; has thrown herself into the power of of mr.
if this be the case, he deserves you.
elizabeth made no answer; and without attempting to persuade her ladyship to return into the house, walked quietly into it herself.
certainly, my dear, nobody said there were; but as to not meeting with many people in this neighbourhood, i believe there are few neighbourhoods larger.
gardiner it had a peculiarly strong attraction.
rushworth, a coup de théâtre; it connects itself in the strictest way with the course of the story earlier, and brings about the denouement with complete propriety.
wickham, undoubtedly by design; for there proved to have been a prior acquaintance between him and mrs.
a regard for the requester would often make one readily yield to a request, without waiting for arguments to reason one into it.
it drew from her, however, the exertion of speaking, which nothing else had so effectually done before; and she asked bingley whether he meant to make any stay in the country at present.
he likes to have his own way very well, replied colonel fitzwilliam.
my feelings are not puffed about with every attempt to move them.
it is at any rate difficult not to extend to her a share of the respect and affection (affection and respect of a peculiar kind; doubtless), with which one regards mr.
i see your design, bingley, said his friend.
she liked him too little to care for his approbation.
darcy, i am a very selfish creature, and for the sake of giving relief to my own feelings care not how much i may be wounding yours.
to his wife he was very little otherwise indebted than as her ignorance and folly had contributed to his amusement.
she had fully proposed being engaged by wickham for those very dances; and to have mr.
on the first head she could not make a mistake; her men, though limited, are true, and her women are, in the old sense, absolute.
darcy had been standing near enough for her to overhear a conversation between him and mr.
i think everything has passed off uncommonly well, i assure you.
but we considered it, we talked of it as impossible.
nothing had ever suggested it before, but they now felt that there was no other way of accounting for such attentions from such a quarter than by supposing a partiality for their niece.
darcy without being grieved to the soul by a thousand tender recollections.
he owns it himself without disguise.
i now give it to you, if you are resolved on having him.
he meant to resign his commission immediately; and as to his future situation, he could conjecture very little about it.
it was all over before i arrived; so my curiosity was not so dreadfully racked as yours seems to have been.
she was disturbed by no fear for her felicity, nor humbled by any remembrance of her misconduct.
said he, taking the letter from his pocket; but perhaps you would like to read it.
he replied, and was again silent.
she was at least free from the offence of mr.
wickham s adieus were much more affectionate than his wife s.
wickham and our poor lydia would be, we are now anxious to be assured it has taken place, for there is but too much reason to fear they are not gone to scotland.
but it was her business to be satisfied and certainly her temper to be happy; and all was soon right again.
a place, too, with which so many of your acquaintance are connected.
she was shown into the breakfast parlour, where all but jane were assembled, and where her appearance created a great deal of surprise.
it cannot be done too much; and when i next write to her, i shall charge her not to neglect it on any account.
his being so sure of succeeding was wrong, said she, and certainly ought not to have appeared; but consider how much it must increase his disappointment.
in that case he would return no more.
you both did as much as you could in planning the marriage.
she tried to recollect some instance of goodness, some distinguished trait of integrity or benevolence, that might rescue him from the attacks of mr.
you judge very properly, said mr.
elizabeth soon observed, and instantly understood it.
she had obtained private intelligence that mr.
as to his real character, had information been in her power, she had never felt a wish of inquiring.
the possibility of meeting mr.
while these newly-born notions were passing in their heads, the perturbation of elizabeth s feelings was every moment increasing.
you are then resolved to have him?
till this moment, i never knew myself.
the satisfaction of prevailing on one of the most worthless young men in great britain to be her husband might then have rested in its proper place.
i owe all that i know of it to another, not to you.
my aunt told me so herself on saturday.
her mind was less difficult to develope.
i should like balls infinitely better, she replied, if they were carried on in a different manner; but there is something insufferably tedious in the usual process of such a meeting.
she danced next with an officer, and had the refreshment of talking of wickham, and of hearing that he was universally liked.
wickham is not so undeserving, then, as we have thought him, said her sister.
my dear lizzy, they must have passed within ten miles of us.
but she contented herself with and one, too, who had probably been his own companion from childhood, connected together, as i think you said, in the closest manner.
that he was not a good-tempered man had been her firmest opinion.
and as for wedding clothes, do not let them wait for that, but tell lydia she shall have as much money as she chooses to buy them, after they are married.
that is very true, said elizabeth; though it had not occurred to me before.
and pray when am i to wish you joy?
my love, should not you like to see a place of which you have heard so much?
i must confess myself surprised by your application; i did not expect it from you.
collins sat down to quadrille; and as miss de bourgh chose to play at cassino, the two girls had the honour of assisting mrs.
he had entertained hopes of being admitted to a sight of the young ladies, of whose beauty he had heard much; but he saw only the father.
i hear such different accounts of you as puzzle me exceedingly.
darcy has never seen the view.
the happiness anticipated by catherine and lydia depended less on any single event, or any particular person; for though they each, like elizabeth, meant to dance half the evening with mr.
but, she continued, recollecting herself, as we know none of the particulars, it is not fair to condemn him.
elizabeth, still more affected, was earnest and solemn in her reply; and, at length, by repeated assurances that mr.
he came down to see the place this was invitation enough.
you have a sweet room here, mr.
collins s happiness; and that in speaking of rosings, and her not perfectly understanding the house, he seemed to expect that whenever she came into kent again she would be staying there too.
i assure you that i have now learnt to enjoy his conversation as an agreeable and sensible young man without having a wish beyond it.
accept my thanks for the compliment you are paying me.
when alone with elizabeth afterwards, she spoke more on the subject.
bennet s best comfort was, that mr.
from these instructions they were summoned by the arrival of the coach; and with many speeches of thankfulness on mr.
i saw them the night before last.
you are rather disposed to call his interference officious?
but if you have got them to-day, said elizabeth, my mother s purpose will be answered.
i am sure you neglect nothing that can add to the beauties of that noble place.
you are very cautious, i suppose, as to its being created?
their fortune on both sides is splendid.
lizzy declares she will not have mr.
it gave her all the animation that her spirits could boast; for she was in no cheerful humour.
wickham did not play at whist, and with ready delight was he received at the other table between elizabeth and lydia.
but i wonder how long you would have gone on, if you had been left to yourself.
with all these circumstances to favour an attachment, and nothing to prevent it, am i wrong, my dearest jane, in indulging the hope of an event which will secure the happiness of so many?
would you believe it, lizzy, that when he went to town last november he really loved me, and nothing but a persuasion of my being indifferent would have prevented his coming down again?
bingley is coming down, sister, (for mrs.
lakes, mountains, and rivers, shall not be jumbled together in our imaginations; nor, when we attempt to describe any particular scene, will we begin quarrelling about its relative situation.
you showed me how insufficient were all my pretensions to please a woman worthy of being pleased.
and lydia used to want to go to london, added kitty.
hurst also made her a slight bow, and said he was very glad; but diffuseness and warmth remained for bingley s salutation.
bennet, i am inclined to think that her own disposition must be naturally bad, or she could not be guilty of such an enormity, at so early an age.
haye park might do, said she, if the gouldings would quit it, or the great house at stoke, if the drawing-room were larger; but ashworth is too far off.
bingley, since you went away, said mrs.
elizabeth was again deep in thought, and after a time exclaimed, to treat in such a manner the godson, the friend, the favourite of his father!
this preservative she had now obtained; and at the age of twenty-seven, without having ever been handsome, she felt all the good luck of it.
but the hero and the heroine are not tints to be dismissed.
upon my honour, i never met with so many pleasant girls in my life as i have this evening; and there are several of them, you see, uncommonly pretty.
darcy s explanation there had appeared very insufficient; and she read it again.
my father began life in the profession which your uncle, mr.
if the dispositions of the parties are ever so well known to each other, or ever so similar beforehand, it does not advance their felicity in the least.
is there one among the sex who would not protest against such a weakness as a second proposal to the same woman?
on sunday, after morning service, the separation, so agreeable to almost all, took place.
bennet chose to consider it as given in compliment to her eldest daughter, and was particularly flattered by receiving the invitation from mr.
elizabeth passed quietly out of the room, jane and kitty followed, but lydia stood her ground, determined to hear all she could; and charlotte, detained first by the civility of mr.
to congratulate myself on the hope of relations whose condition in life is so decidedly beneath my own?
the observations of her uncle and aunt now began; and each of them pronounced him to be infinitely superior to anything they had expected.
elizabeth could hardly help laughing at so convenient a proposal; yet was really vexed that her mother should be always giving him such an epithet.
collins said anything of which his wife might reasonably be ashamed, which certainly was not seldom, she involuntarily turned her eye on charlotte.
bennet himself, while his wife seriously commended mr.
i should be sorry to think our friend mercenary.
no, my dear, you had better go on horseback, because it seems likely to rain; and then you must stay all night.
darcy exposed to all the parading and obsequious civility of her husband.
collins and me have a little conversation together.
and do you really know all this?
i wonder he does not marry, to secure a lasting convenience of that kind.
but last summer he was again most painfully obtruded on my notice.
i want to know, said she, with a countenance no less smiling than her sister s, what you have learnt about mr.
we cannot suppose he would help it, if he could.
that, that is the worst of all.
at such an assembly as this, it would be insupportable.
they were all astonished; and mr.
only think what a miserable summer else we shall have!
do you think it incredible that mr.
had he done his duty in that respect, lydia need not have been indebted to her uncle for whatever of honour or credit could now be purchased for her.
she then proceeded to inquire into the measures which her father had intended to pursue, while in town, for the recovery of his daughter.
elizabeth could not but be pleased, could not but triumph.
you and papa, and my sisters, must come down and see us.
i shall send for my clothes when i get to longbourn; but i wish you would tell sally to mend a great slit in my worked muslin gown before they are packed up.
repeated darcy, contemptuously, yes, his misfortunes have been great indeed.
or, in other words, you are determined to have him.
i wonder what he can be doing there.
to my fancy, it is only because he does not rattle away like other young men.
i never saw a more promising inclination; he was growing quite inattentive to other people, and wholly engrossed by her.
you are not going to be missish, i hope, and pretend to be affronted at an idle report.
bennet, and was a great comfort to them in their hours of freedom.
wickham, he was by no means the only partner who could satisfy them, and a ball was, at any rate, a ball.
you have widely mistaken my character, if you think i can be worked on by such persuasions as these.
darcy, and even miss elizabeth herself, were, i am inclined to think, rather hard on him for the impropriety of his conduct.
what could be more natural than his asking you again?
her mother s thoughts she plainly saw were bent the same way, and she determined not to venture near her, lest she might hear too much.
wickham passed all his youth there, you know.
darcy acknowledged that the partridges were remarkably well done; and i suppose he has two or three french cooks at least.
younge was of course removed from her charge.
it was drawn at the same time as the other about eight years ago.
he seemed scarcely to hear her, and was walking up and down the room in earnest meditation; his brow contracted, his air gloomy.
it is a truth universally acknowledged, that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife.
in a softened tone she declared herself not at all offended; but he continued to apologize for about a quarter of an hour.
our distress, my dear lizzy, is very great.
she wanted to hear of him, when there seemed the least chance of gaining intelligence.
darcy s progress through his book, as in reading her own; and she was perpetually either making some inquiry, or looking at his page.
i am not particularly speaking of such a case as you have supposed about mr.
they were not welcomed home very cordially by their mother.
philips was very thankful for his compliance, but could not wait for his reason.
yes, there was something in that; i told you so from the first, you may remember.
there is something very pompous in his style.
how much of good or evil must be done by him!
long and her nieces must stand their chance; and, therefore, as she will think it an act of kindness, if you decline the office, i will take it on myself.
in nursing your sister i am sure you have pleasure, said bingley; and i hope it will soon be increased by seeing her quite well.
collins, seeing that she was really unwell, did not press her to go, and as much as possible prevented her husband from pressing her; but mr.
you think it a faithful portrait, undoubtedly.
he looked serious as usual; and, she thought, more as he had been used to look in hertfordshire, than as she had seen him at pemberley.
but it is of small importance.
if what i have hitherto said can appear to you in the form of encouragement, i know not how to express my refusal in such a way as may convince you of its being one.
whatever bears affinity to cunning is despicable.
darcy, she turned her eyes on the daughter, she could almost have joined in maria s astonishment at her being so thin and so small.
darcy, will readily comprehend how sincerely i must rejoice that he is wise enough to assume even the appearance of what is right.
jane was beyond competition her favourite child.
you know my mother s ideas as to the necessity of constant company for her friends.
he has always something to say to everybody.
they must be a great loss to your family.
very true, indeed; and now, my dear jane, what have you got to say in behalf of the interested people who have probably been concerned in the business?
he was my godfather, and excessively attached to me.
through letters, whatever of good or bad was to be told would be communicated; and every succeeding day was expected to bring some news of importance.
what a triumph for him, as she often thought, could he know that the proposals which she had proudly spurned only four months ago would now have been gladly and gratefully received!
her sister, however, assured her of her being perfectly well; and their conversation, which had been passing while mr.
never intended to go there, or to marry lydia at all, which was repeated to colonel f., who, instantly taking the alarm, set off from b., intending to trace their route.
it was a subject, in short, on which reflection would be long indulged, and must be unavailing.
daughter has proceeded from a faulty degree of indulgence; though, at the same time, for the consolation of yourself and mrs.
he was full of joy and attention.
my friend has an excellent understanding though i am not certain that i consider her marrying mr.
hurst, by whom elizabeth sat, he was an indolent man, who lived only to eat, drink, and play at cards, who, when he found her prefer a plain dish to a ragout, had nothing to say to her.
you know how i detest it, unless i am particularly acquainted with my partner.
his circumstances, he assured me, and i had no difficulty in believing it, were exceedingly bad.
i never meant to deceive you, but my spirits might often lead me wrong.
i desire you will do no such thing.
nothing of the past was recollected with pain; and lydia led voluntarily to subjects which her sisters would not have alluded to for the world.
gardiner, with their four children, did at length appear at longbourn.
as soon as they entered, bingley looked at her so expressively, and shook hands with such warmth, as left no doubt of his good information; and he soon afterwards said aloud, mrs.
in that county there was enough to be seen to occupy the chief of their three weeks; and to mrs.
elizabeth coloured and laughed as she replied, yes, you know enough of my frankness to believe me capable of that.
the rain continued the whole evening without intermission; jane certainly could not come back.
if from no better motive, that he should not have been too proud to be dishonest, for dishonesty i must call it.
i did not think you would; and that being the case, i cannot consider your situation with much compassion.
they had long wished to see him.
a clergyman like you must marry.
march was to take elizabeth to hunsford.
this was a lucky idea of mine, indeed!
she longed to know what at that moment was passing in his mind; in what manner he thought of her, and whether, in defiance of everything, she was still dear to him.
kitty and i are going upstairs to sit in my dressing-room.
perhaps he had been civil only because he felt himself at ease; yet there had been that in his voice, which was not like ease.
to all the objections i have already urged i have still another to add.
elizabeth would not observe her; and when at last kitty did, she very innocently said, what is the matter, mamma?
and, above all things, keep mr.
their affectionate mother shared all their grief; she remembered what she had herself endured on a similar occasion five-and-twenty years ago.
collins, very gravely but i cannot imagine that her ladyship would at all disapprove of you.
the kindness of my uncle and aunt can never be requited.
it would have spared her, she thought, one sleepless night out of two.
but i can guess how it was; everybody says that he is eat up with pride, and i dare say he had heard somehow that mrs.
gave them to understand that they were going to gretna green, something was dropped by denny expressing his belief that w.
i hope your plans in favour of the shire will not be affected by his being in the neighbourhood.
nothing could console and nothing appease her.
and then, with a slight bow, turned again into the plantation, and was soon out of sight.
but if it be only a slight, thin sort of inclination, i am convinced that one good sonnet will starve it entirely away.
there are few people whom i really love, and still fewer of whom i think well.
at that instant she felt, that years of happiness could not make jane or herself amends for moments of such painful confusion.
two offences of a very different nature, and by no means of equal magnitude, you last night laid to my charge.
from what we have seen of him, continued mrs.
she now lost every expectation of pleasure.
some of them were to dine with the philipses the next day, and their aunt promised to make her husband call on mr.
and gathering her work together, she was hastening away, when elizabeth called out, dear ma am, do not go.
lydia left a few lines for his wife, informing her of their intention.
he had some intention, he added, of studying the law, and i must be aware that the interest of one thousand pounds would be a very insufficient support therein.
it was a journey of only twenty-four miles, and they began it so early as to be in gracechurch street by noon.
forster, the wife of the colonel of the regiment, to accompany her to brighton.
caroline did not return my visit till yesterday; and not a note, not a line, did i receive in the meantime.
he did trace them easily to clapham, but no farther; for on entering that place, they removed into a hackney-coach, and dismissed the chaise that brought them from epsom.
she is upstairs, and will have great satisfaction in seeing you all.
the rest of his letter is only about his dear charlotte s situation, and his expectation of a young olive-branch.
i was given good principles, but left to follow them in pride and conceit.
jane pictured to herself a happy evening in the society of her two friends, and the attentions of their brother; and elizabeth thought with pleasure of dancing a great deal with mr.
she counted the days that must intervene before their invitation could be sent hopeless of seeing him before.
if you were sensible of your own good, you would not wish to quit the sphere in which you have been brought up.
she will not be able to help calling.
elizabeth was watchful enough to see it all, but she could see it and write of it without material pain.
my mother would have no objection, but my father hates london.
denny had brought him from london, and that he was to have a lieutenant s commission in the shire.
gardiner that he had found out where your sister and mr.
they did not see the gentlemen again till tuesday; and mrs.
what will you think of my vanity?
then you would drink a great deal more than you ought, said mrs.
she not unfrequently stopped at the parsonage, and had a few minutes conversation with charlotte, but was scarcely ever prevailed on to get out.
and then i would chaperon you about to all the balls.
bennet thought it possible they might have gone to one of them, on their first coming to london, before they procured lodgings.
she looked forward to their entrance as the point on which all her chance of pleasure for the evening must depend.
the tumult of elizabeth s mind was allayed by this conversation.
unwilling as she was to admit an idea so destructive to jane s happiness, and so dishonourable to the stability of her lover, she could not prevent its frequently recurring.
and is such a girl to be my nephew s sister?
twice has she condescended to give me her opinion (unasked too!) on this subject; and it was but the very saturday night before i left hunsford, between our pools at quadrille, while mrs.
and this, said she, is the end of all his friend s anxious circumspection!
you ought certainly to forgive them as a christian, but never to admit them in your sight, or allow their names to be mentioned in your hearing.
well, my dear, said he, when she ceased speaking, i have no more to say.
my temper would perhaps be called resentful.
wickham, who left the place immediately, and mrs.
the whole party have left netherfield by this time, and are on their way to town; and without any intention of coming back again.
jane was already so much recovered as to intend leaving her room for a couple of hours that evening.
gardiner that my niece is very desirous of seeing you all before she leaves the south.
she entered the room with an air more than usually ungracious, made no other reply to elizabeth s salutation than a slight inclination of the head, and sat down without saying a word.
the happiest, wisest, and most reasonable end!
many stared many smiled; but no one looked more amused than mr.
mary and kitty were both with mrs.
darcy, you must allow me to present this young lady to you as a very desirable partner.
she was proceeding directly to her favourite walk, when the recollection of mr.
oh yes, said elizabeth drily mr.
they were, in fact, very fine ladies; not deficient in good-humour when they were pleased, nor in the power of being agreeable where they chose it; but proud and conceited.
elizabeth dared not lift up her eyes.
your conjecture is totally wrong, i assure you.
collins, and the gaieties of their intercourse with rosings.
protested he must be entirely mistaken.
if there is no other objection to my marrying your nephew, i shall certainly not be kept from it by knowing that his mother and aunt wished him to marry miss de bourgh.
but little had she dared to hope that so much love and eloquence awaited her there.
gardiner and the children were to remain in hertfordshire a few days longer, as the former thought her presence might be serviceable to her nieces.
i must be in town next saturday.
five daughters successively entered the world, but yet the son was to come; and mrs.
in the next room is a new instrument just come down for her a present from my master: she comes here to-morrow with him.
when elizabeth had rejoiced over wickham s departure, she found little other cause for satisfaction in the loss of the regiment.
she sat intently at work, striving to be composed, and without daring to lift up her eyes, till anxious curiosity carried them to the face of her sister as the servant was approaching the door.
collins attending them to point out its beauties, and lady catherine kindly informing them that it was much better worth looking at in the summer.
your idea of the ponies is delightful.
to convince him, therefore, that he had deceived himself was no very difficult point.
but the horror of what might possibly happen almost took from me my faculties.
darcy is not coming here again with our dear bingley!
i am no longer surprised at your knowing only six accomplished women.
elizabeth assured him that she could suit herself perfectly with those in the room.
we will go as far as meryton with you, said catherine and lydia.
no, said colonel fitzwilliam, that is an advantage which he must divide with me.
to yield without conviction is no compliment to the understanding of either.
they have a sharp, shrewish look, which i do not like at all; and in her air altogether, there is a self-sufficiency without fashion, which is intolerable.
but i believe your opinion of him would in general astonish and, perhaps, you would not express it quite so strongly anywhere else.
you have no compassion on my poor nerves.
and men take care that they should.
this must be a most inconvenient sitting-room for the evening in summer: the windows are full west.
darcy s pleasure, in the bingleys invitation to the officers; and though this was not exactly the case, the absolute fact of his absence was pronounced by his friend mr.
darcy, for now they do appear wholly undeserved.
it has been a very agreeable day, said miss bennet to elizabeth.
as it happened that elizabeth had much rather not, she endeavoured in her answer to put an end to every entreaty and expectation of the kind.
well, and so we breakfasted at ten as usual: i thought it would never be over; for, by the bye, you are to understand that my uncle and aunt were horrid unpleasant all the time i was with them.
and i have another favour to ask.
let me never see either one or the other again!
darcy smiled; but elizabeth thought she could perceive that he was rather offended, and therefore checked her laugh.
but i make no doubt they often talk of it between themselves.
collins, much offended, laid aside his book, and said, i have often observed how little young ladies are interested by books of a serious stamp, though written solely for their benefit.
i was in the middle before i knew that i had begun.
and can you likewise declare, that there is no foundation for it?
the loo table, however, did not appear.
both, replied elizabeth archly; for i have always seen a great similarity in the turn of our minds.
collins was first introduced to her notice, but he certainly has not known her long.
elizabeth had settled it that mr.
one must speak a little, you know.
it had come with a fare from london; and as he thought the circumstance of a gentleman and lady s removing from one carriage into another might be remarked, he meant to make inquiries at clapham.
that is the place to get husbands.
and then when you go away, you may leave one or two of my sisters behind you; and i dare say i shall get husbands for them before the winter is over.
if i had known as much this morning, i certainly would not have called on him.
thoughtless and indiscreet i can easily believe him, but this step (and let us rejoice over it) marks nothing bad at heart.
the word is applied to many a woman who deserves it no otherwise than by netting a purse or covering a screen; but i am very far from agreeing with you in your estimation of ladies in general.
gardiner had waited only for the letters before he set off.
the next morning, as she was going down stairs, she was met by her father, who came out of his library with a letter in his hand.
without a governess, you must have been neglected.
it is not that i do not believe my fingers as capable as any other woman s of superior execution.
never in her life had she seen his manners so little dignified, never had he spoken with such gentleness as on this unexpected meeting.
she could think only of her letter.
bennet sat looking and winking at elizabeth and catherine for a considerable time, without making any impression on them.
indeed, you are mistaken, madam; i have not been at all able to account for the honour of seeing you here.
the one was humanity, and the other was art.
bennet, more than once, as if the credit of making it rain were all her own.
i am exceedingly gratified, said bingley, by your converting what my friend says into a compliment on the sweetness of my temper.
the children have been wanting me this half hour.
as he was to begin his journey too early on the morrow to see any of the family, the ceremony of leave-taking was performed when the ladies moved for the night; and mrs.
darcy s civility, and, above all, of his wishing her to be acquainted with his sister.
they have not the same force or rapidity, and do not produce the same expression.
however, he wrote some verses on her, and very pretty they were.
do not imagine, miss bennet, that your ambition will ever be gratified.
elizabeth looked with unaffected astonishment.
she had never perceived, while the regiment was in hertfordshire, that lydia had any partiality for him; but she was convinced that lydia had wanted only encouragement to attach herself to anybody.
philips, who had been a clerk to their father and succeeded him in the business, and a brother settled in london in a respectable line of trade.
such an openness and gentleness in his manner.
came on into hertfordshire, anxiously renewing them at all the turnpikes, and at the inns in barnet and hatfield, but without any success, no such people had been seen to pass through.
but i cannot i have never desired your good opinion, and you have certainly bestowed it most unwillingly.
she had instinctively turned away; but stopping on his approach, received his compliments with an embarrassment impossible to be overcome.
said she, as she looked in her face.
but it must very materially lessen their chance of marrying men of any consideration in the world, replied darcy.
no aunt, no officers, no news could be sought after; the very shoe-roses for netherfield were got by proxy.
that she should receive an offer of marriage from mr.
we must not all expect jane s good fortune.
i deserve neither such praise nor such censure, cried elizabeth; i am not a great reader, and i have pleasure in many things.
sense and sensibility has perhaps the fewest out-and-out admirers; but it does not want them.
about a year ago, she was taken from school, and an establishment formed for her in london; and last summer she went with the lady who presided over it to ramsgate; and thither also went mr.
you are considering how insupportable it would be to pass many evenings in this manner, in such society; and, indeed, i am quite of your opinion.
bennet was glad to take his guest into the drawing-room again, and when tea was over, glad to invite him protested that he never read novels h.t feb 94 to read aloud to the ladies.
collins could not have been so satisfactorily exhibited if his creatress had not adjusted so artfully to him the figures of mr.
it is a pity they are not handsome!
for about three years i heard little of him; but on the decease of the incumbent of the living which had been designed for him, he applied to me again by letter for the presentation.
she had very little notice from any but him.
though she dared not depend upon the consequence, she yet received pleasure from observing his behaviour.
i am sorry you think so; but if that be the case, there can at least be no want of subject.
lady lucas quieted her fears a little by starting the idea of his being gone to london only to get a large party for the ball; and a report soon followed that mr.
philips were now productive of the most interesting intelligence.
forster, and kitty and me, except my aunt, for we were forced to borrow one of her gowns; and you cannot imagine how well he looked!
in anticipating the happiness of bingley, which of course was to be inferior only to his own, he continued the conversation till they reached the house.
her ladyship seemed pleased with the idea; and you may imagine that i am happy on every occasion to offer those little delicate compliments which are always acceptable to ladies.
where shall you change horses?
when colonel miller s regiment went.
but before they heard again from mr.
if i could but see you as happy!
though it is difficult, said jane, to guess in what way he can mean to make us the atonement he thinks our due, the wish is certainly to his credit.
scarcely anything was talked of the whole day or next morning but their visit to rosings.
he only meant that there was not such a variety of people to be met with in the country as in town, which you must acknowledge to be true.
very frequently were they reproached for this insensibility by kitty and lydia, whose own misery was extreme, and who could not comprehend such hard-heartedness in any of the family.
we shall have no peace at longbourn if lydia does not go to brighton.
are you out of your senses to be accepting this man?
she was roused from her seat and her reflections, by someone s approach; and, before she could strike into another path, she was overtaken by wickham.
perhaps you mean what i overheard between him and mr.
i never saw such capacity, and taste, and application, and elegance, as you describe, united.
had lydia s marriage been concluded on the most honourable terms, it was not to be supposed that mr.
now, seriously, what have you ever known of self-denial and dependence?
i will write to my sister gardiner about them directly.
gardiner s coming up they were all pressed to go into the house and take some refreshment; but this was declined, and they parted on each side with the utmost politeness.
wickham has created, a suspicion of their nature shall not prevent me from unfolding his real character.
bennet, shaking her head, then she is better off than many girls.
no, no; i feel he may defy us there.
young ladies of her age are sometimes a little difficult to manage; and if she has the true darcy spirit, she may like to have her own way.
collins joining in, observed, yes, miss elizabeth, you will have the honour of seeing lady catherine de bourgh on the ensuing sunday at church, and i need not say you will be delighted with her.
repeated the other, as she ran into her room to prepare.
the horses were post; and neither the carriage, nor the livery of the servant who preceded it, were familiar to them.
an unhappy alternative is before you, elizabeth.
bennet, as she entered the room, we have had a most delightful evening, a most excellent ball.
collins began, believe me, my dear miss elizabeth, that your modesty, so far from doing you any disservice, rather adds to your other perfections.
collins s letter; and after laughing at her some time, allowed her at last to go, saying, as she quitted the room, if any young men come for mary or kitty, send them in, for i am quite at leisure.
i shall be very fit to see jane which is all i want.
her answer, therefore, was not propitious, at least not to elizabeth s wishes, for she was impatient to get home.
yes if darcy does not put it off again.
i hope we may often meet again.
but really, and upon my honour, i will try to do what i think to be wisest; and now i hope you are satisfied.
it was very strange that he should come to longbourn instead of to lucas lodge; it was also very inconvenient and exceedingly troublesome.
collins, when he returned to longbourn to dinner, to drop no hint of what had passed before any of the family.
you refuse to obey the claims of duty, honour, and gratitude.
a short dialogue on the subject of the country ensued, on either side calm and concise and soon put an end to by the entrance of charlotte and her sister, just returned from their walk.
but i was not then master enough of myself to know what could or ought to be revealed.
he has been here this half hour, and master has had a letter.
catherine and lydia had information for them of a different sort.
every lingering struggle in his favour grew fainter and fainter; and in further justification of mr.
bennet had been down stairs, but on this happy day she again took her seat at the head of her table, and in spirits oppressively high.
your friend performs delightfully, he continued, after a pause, on seeing bingley join the group; and i doubt not that you are an adept in the science yourself, mr.
well, well, said he, do not make yourself unhappy.
and, after all, what is the good of seeking for the reason of charm?
collins is perfectly natural, and perfectly alive.
how are they even to be discovered?
what can be the meaning of that emphatic exclamation?
oh, said lydia, stoutly, i am not afraid; for though i am the youngest, i m the tallest.
she followed him with her eyes, envied everyone to whom he spoke, had scarcely patience enough to help anybody to coffee, and then was enraged against herself for being so silly!
bingley did not take the house so much for the convenience of the neighbourhood as for his own, and we must expect him to keep or quit it on the same principle.
find such a woman as soon as you can, bring her to hunsford, and i will visit her.
she is the sort of woman whom one cannot regard with too much deference.
jane resolutely kept her place at the table; but elizabeth, to satisfy her mother, went to the window she looked she saw mr.
how was it possible that such an idea should enter our brains?
no man of common humanity, no man who had any value for his character, could be capable of it.
miss bingley was then sorry that she had proposed the delay; for her jealousy and dislike of one sister much exceeded her affection for the other.
elizabeth was forced to give in to a little falsehood here; for to acknowledge the substance of their conversation was impossible.
why, my dear, you must know, mrs.
they entered the breakfast room charlotte had hardly time to answer before they were joined by kitty, who came to tell the same news; and no sooner had they entered the breakfast-room, where mrs.
she still cherished a very tender affection for bingley.
i should never be happy without him, so think it no harm to be off.
elizabeth found the interest of the subject increase, and listened with all her heart; but the delicacy of it prevented further inquiry.
there was certainly at this moment, in elizabeth s mind, a more gentle sensation towards the original than she had ever felt in the height of their acquaintance.
but do you always write such charming long letters to her, mr.
as long as she stays there, it is all very well.
i dare say i shall soon see them here.
jane met her with a smile of such sweet complacency, a glow of such happy expression, as sufficiently marked how well she was satisfied with the occurrences of the evening.
not that i think charlotte so very plain; but then she is our particular friend.
there is nothing the matter with me.
this is no very striking resemblance of your own character, i am sure, said he.
it had not been very great; he had lost every point; but when mrs.
he generously imputed the whole to his mistaken pride, and confessed that he had before thought it beneath him to lay his private actions open to the world.
miss darcy, though with a diffidence which marked her little in the habit of giving invitations, readily obeyed.
philips s throwing up the parlour window, and loudly seconding the invitation.
i should never have considered the distance as one of the advantages of the match, cried elizabeth.
if, in the explanation of them which is due to myself, i am under the necessity of relating feelings which may be offensive to yours, i can only say that i am sorry.
this will not do, said elizabeth; you never will be able to make both of them good for anything.
bennet, before you take any, or all of these houses, for your son and daughter, let us come to a right understanding.
shall you ever have courage to announce to lady catherine what is to befall her?
well, and what news does it bring good or bad?
you may remember what i told you on that point, when first we talked of it.
bennet luckily stood in such awe of her intended son-in-law, that she ventured not to speak to him, unless it was in her power to offer him any attention, or mark her deference for his opinion.
could colonel forster repeat the particulars of lydia s note to his wife?
i have heard, indeed, that she is uncommonly improved within this year or two.
if one could but go to brighton!
bingley looked a little silly at this reflection, and said something of his concern at having been prevented by business.
and now do, when you get to town, find them out, wherever they may be; and if they are not married already, make them marry.
i am sure we never read the same, or not with the same feelings.
bingley was the principal spokesman, and miss bennet the principal object.
but, to be sure, the good lady who showed us the house did give him a most flaming character!
it must make you better satisfied that your other four are single.
last christmas you were afraid of his marrying me, because it would be imprudent; and now, because he is trying to get a girl with only ten thousand pounds, you want to find out that he is mercenary.
it might seem as if she had purposely thrown herself in his way again!
but it is not merely this affair, she continued, on which my dislike is founded.
but do not deceive yourself into a belief that i will ever recede.
after walking two or three times along that part of the lane, she was tempted, by the pleasantness of the morning, to stop at the gates and look into the park.
bennet, whose dislike of his general behaviour was sharpened into particular resentment by his having slighted one of her daughters.
philips, as well as her sister, stood in too much awe of him to speak with the familiarity which bingley s good-humour encouraged; yet, whenever she did speak, she must be vulgar.
her indifferent state of health unhappily prevents her being in town; and by that means, as i told lady catherine myself one day, has deprived the british court of its brightest ornament.
i talked about the dance, and you ought to make some kind of remark on the size of the room, or the number of couples.
more than once did elizabeth, in her ramble within the park, unexpectedly meet mr.
darcy was condemned as the worst of men.
collins could be forgotten, there was really a great air of comfort throughout, and by charlotte s evident enjoyment of it, elizabeth supposed he must be often forgotten.
collins s respectability, and charlotte s prudent, steady character.
the park was very large, and contained great variety of ground.
walked back with them copyright 1894 by george allen.
but, however, that shan t prevent my asking him to dine here, i am determined.
i only want to think you perfect, and you set yourself against it.
his sister was less delicate, and directed her eye towards mr.
that she could be in any danger from the deception never entered my head.
collins should be able to procure any woman s good opinion, because he was not so happy as to succeed with you?
the separation between her and her family was rather noisy than pathetic.
was a question which elizabeth received from jane as soon as she entered the room, and from all the others when they sat down to table.
it is not to be supposed that there was much affection in the case.
miss bennet s astonishment was soon lessened by the strong sisterly partiality which made any admiration of elizabeth appear perfectly natural; and all surprise was shortly lost in other feelings.
bennet had to wait for their carriage a quarter of an hour after everybody else was gone, which gave them time to see how heartily they were wished away by some of the family.
if you mention my name at the bell, you will be attended to.
and in the sect fairly large and yet unusually choice of austenians or janites, there would probably be found partisans of the claim to primacy of almost every one of the novels.
they were interrupted by miss bennet, who came to fetch her mother s tea.
oh, my dear brother, replied mrs.
he made her an offer in this very room, and she refused him.
if he did shrug his shoulders, it was not till sir william was out of sight.
give my love to colonel forster.
it will be no use to us, if twenty such should come, since you will not visit them.
my good opinion once lost is lost for ever.
but, lizzy, you can tell us whether it is like or not.
all expectation from the brother was now absolutely over.
his choice is disinterested at least, for he must know my father can give her nothing.
not like the wild young men now-a-days, who think of nothing but themselves.
well, then, supposing them to be in london they may be there, though for the purpose of concealment, for no more exceptionable purpose.
the miss webbs all play, and their father has not so good an income as yours.
for a few moments, indeed, she felt that he would probably strike into some other path.
the wish of procuring her regard, which she had assured herself of his feeling in derbyshire, could not in rational expectation survive such a blow as this.
what think you of this sentence, my dear lizzy?
she is a selfish, hypocritical woman, and i have no opinion of her.
as for my fair cousins, though my absence may not be long enough to render it necessary, i shall now take the liberty of wishing them health and happiness, not excepting my cousin elizabeth.
and remember that i have not much reason for supposing it to be bingley.
in understanding, darcy was the superior.
he has a very satirical eye, and if i do not begin by being impertinent myself, i shall soon grow afraid of him.
it must be something particular to take him there at this time of year.
the surprise of such an application was great indeed; it was too great for her to know in what manner she acceded to it.
and what can he mean by apologizing for being next in the entail?
eager to be alone, and fearful of inquiries or hints from her uncle and aunt, she stayed with them only long enough to hear their favourable opinion of bingley, and then hurried away to dress.
he and his sisters were well, i hope, when you left london?
after lamenting it, however, at some length, she had the consolation of thinking that mr.
if it were merely a fine house richly furnished, said she, i should not care about it myself; but the grounds are delightful.
elizabeth privately added, and how much i shall have to conceal!
you expect me to account for opinions which you choose to call mine, but which i have never acknowledged.
bennet was forced to submit to a separation, which, as her husband by no means entered into her scheme of their all going to newcastle, was likely to continue at least a twelvemonth.
the lucases are very artful people, indeed, sister.
whatever my connections may be, said elizabeth, if your nephew does not object to them, they can be nothing to you.
and with no one to speak to of what i felt, no jane to comfort me, and say that i had not been so very weak, and vain, and nonsensical, as i knew i had!
wickham s attention was caught; and after observing mr.
elizabeth, for the sake of saying something that might turn her mother s thoughts, now asked her if charlotte lucas had been at longbourn since her coming away.
the others have been gone on to scarborough these three weeks.
an airing would do me a great deal of good, i am sure.
how anyone could have the conscience to entail away an estate from one s own daughters i cannot understand; and all for the sake of mr.
kitty is slight and delicate, and mary studies so much that her hours of repose should not be broken in on.
collins s picture of hunsford and rosings rationally softened; and elizabeth perceived that she must wait for her own visit there, to know the rest.
for, though elated by his rank, it did not render him supercilious; on the contrary, he was all attention to everybody.
this must be the grossest falsehood!
she says lizzy had better have taken mr.
a lively imagination soon settled it all.
if they believed him attached to me they would not try to part us; if he were so, they could not succeed.
had it been your uncle s doing, i must and would have paid him; but these violent young lovers carry everything their own way.
and even when it was settled that lydia should go with mrs.
i have known him too long and too well to be a fair judge.
i know my own strength, and i shall never be embarrassed again by his coming.
it has been said that no one ever was like him.
now i have got some news for you, said lydia, as they sat down to table.
you must come and make lizzy marry mr.
you may depend on it, replied the other, for mrs.
everything wore a happier aspect.
she practises very constantly.
by supposing such an affection, you make everybody acting unnaturally and wrong, and me most unhappy.
darcy shook his head in silent acquiescence.
she is happy, then, said her father, drily; and her residence there will probably be of some duration.
collins met for breakfast a few minutes before the others appeared; and he took the opportunity of paying the parting civilities which he deemed indispensably necessary.
i only fear that the sort of cautiousness to which you, i imagine, have been alluding, is merely adopted on his visits to his aunt, of whose good opinion and judgment he stands much in awe.
never had his wit been directed in a manner so little agreeable to her.
i am very sensible, madam, of the hardship to my fair cousins, and could say much on the subject, but that i am cautious of appearing forward and precipitate.
he saw wickham, and afterwards insisted on seeing lydia.
i hate to see you standing about by yourself in this stupid manner.
darcy, after inquiring of her how mr.
the improvement of spending a night in london was added in time, and the plan became as perfect as plan could be.
to this, mary very gravely replied, far be it from me, my dear sister, to depreciate such pleasures.
in making me the offer, you must have satisfied the delicacy of your feelings with regard to my family, and may take possession of longbourn estate whenever it falls, without any self-reproach.
you allude, perhaps, to the entail of this estate.
he was declared to be in debt to every tradesman in the place, and his intrigues, all honoured with the title of seduction, had been extended into every tradesman s family.
younge, who was some time ago governess to miss darcy, and was dismissed from her charge on some cause of disapprobation, though he did not say what.
kitty, to her very material advantage, spent the chief of her time with her two elder sisters.
a deeper shade of hauteur overspread his features, but he said not a word; and elizabeth, though blaming herself for her own weakness, could not go on.
till i can forget his father, i can never defy or expose him.
she is a great fool for going away, if she liked him.
bingley of course returned with him to dinner; and in the evening mrs.
perhaps he must, if he sees enough of her.
wickham, of course, wanted more than he could get; but at length was reduced to be reasonable.
bennet, in the meanwhile, was giving way to all the happy schemes which the good-humour and common politeness of bingley, in half an hour s visit, had revived.
offended two or three young ladies an excellent consolation in its way, said elizabeth; but it will not do for us.
the prospect of the netherfield ball was extremely agreeable to every female of the family.
gardiner; but perhaps, to the lakes.
they have both, said she, been deceived, i dare say, in some way or other, of which we can form no idea.
but it is very likely that he may fall in love with one of them, and therefore you must visit him as soon as he comes.
not a syllable had ever reached her of miss darcy s meditated elopement.
they are wanted in the farm, mr.
on tuesday there was a large party assembled at longbourn; and the two who were most anxiously expected, to the credit of their punctuality as sportsmen, were in very good time.
her performance on the pianoforte is exquisite.
this gallantry was not much to the taste of some of his hearers; but mrs.
reynolds respect for elizabeth seemed to increase on this intimation of her knowing her master.
she was sure they should be married some time or other, and it did not much signify when.
darcy, i am sure, said miss bingley; and i am inclined to think that you would not wish to see your sister make such an exhibition.
the business of her life was to get her daughters married: its solace was visiting and news.
it is as often applied to feelings which arise only from a half hour s acquaintance, as to a real, strong attachment.
after a short silence the lady first spoke.
darcy smiled and said, you are perfectly right.
it cannot be concealed from anyone.
there is a gentleman with him, mamma, said kitty; who can it be?
the contents of this letter threw elizabeth into a flutter of spirits, in which it was difficult to determine whether pleasure or pain bore the greatest share.
in the first place, he must make such an agreement for tithes as may be beneficial to himself and not offensive to his patron.
i had not believed it possible.
philips protested that they would have a nice comfortable noisy game of lottery tickets, and a little bit of hot supper afterwards.
darcy is not so well worth listening to as his friend, is he?
if i can but see one of my daughters happily settled at netherfield, said mrs.
darcy, who was leaning against the mantel-piece with his eyes fixed on her face, seemed to catch her words with no less resentment than surprise.
if you do not choose to understand me, forgive my impertinence.
their first subject was the diminution of the rosings party.
i am very glad to hear such a good account of her, said lady catherine; and pray tell her from me, that she cannot expect to excel, if she does not practise a great deal.
since such were her feelings, it only remained, he thought, to secure and expedite a marriage, which, in his very first conversation with wickham, he easily learnt had never been his design.
i am going to-morrow where i shall find a man who has not one agreeable quality, who has neither manners nor sense to recommend him.
he deserves to be publicly disgraced.
he may live in my memory as the most amiable man of my acquaintance but that is all.
how can you be smiling so, lizzy?
when the clock struck three, elizabeth felt that she must go, and very unwillingly said so.
miss darcy, the daughter of mr.
i have done with you from this very day.
but lady catherine seemed gratified by their excessive admiration, and gave most gracious smiles, especially when any dish on the table proved a novelty to them.
i wonder, said he, at the next opportunity of speaking, whether he is likely to be in this country much longer.
darcy more than once, but he believes that it was left to him conditionally only.
she stood several minutes before the picture, in earnest contemplation, and returned to it again before they quitted the gallery.
i promised them so faithfully!
perhaps he thought her too young.
he is the kind of man, indeed, to whom i should never dare refuse anything, which he condescended to ask.
much as i abominate writing, i would not give up mr.
is not disposed to depend upon their marriage: he shook his head when i expressed my hopes, and said he feared w.
no, no, you shall not deceive me: i know it to be impossible.
girls, can i do anything for you in meryton?
we will know where we have gone we will recollect what we have seen.
wickham in and near brighton with assurances of speedy payment, for which i have pledged myself.
but no such recollection befriended her.
he was fond of the country and of books; and from these tastes had arisen his principal enjoyments.
i had often seen him in love before.
i found, said he, as the time drew near, that i had better not meet mr.
wickham s intention to go into the regulars; and, among his former friends, there are still some who are able and willing to assist him in the army.
in vain did she entreat him to stand up with somebody else, and offered to introduce him to any young lady in the room.
forster, the necessity of opening her eyes to his character never occurred to me.
in revolving lady catherine s expressions, however, she could not help feeling some uneasiness as to the possible consequence of her persisting in this interference.
we will settle with your father about the money afterwards; but the things should be ordered immediately.
but to live in ignorance on such a point was impossible; or at least it was impossible not to try for information.
they called at various times of the morning, sometimes separately, sometimes together, and now and then accompanied by their aunt.
however, i recollected afterwards, that if he had been prevented going, the wedding need not be put off, for mr.
i hope i never ridicule what is wise or good.
the joy which miss darcy expressed on receiving similar information was as sincere as her brother s in sending it.
miss bingley, said he, has given me credit for more than can be.
are the shades of pemberley to be thus polluted?
my aunt philips came to longbourn on tuesday, after my father went away; and was so good as to stay till thursday with me.
this naturally introduced a panegyric from jane on his diffidence, and the little value he put on his own good qualities.
the gentlemen came; and she thought he looked as if he would have answered her hopes; but, alas!
younge was, he knew, intimately acquainted with wickham; and he went to her for intelligence of him, as soon as he got to town.
as for the gentleman himself, his feelings were chiefly expressed, not by embarrassment or dejection, or by trying to avoid her, but by stiffness of manner and resentful silence.
i thank you for explaining it so fully.
bennet we have glanced at, and it is not easy to say whether she is more exquisitely amusing or more horribly true.
conjectures as to the meaning of it, rapid and wild, hurried into her brain; but she was satisfied with none.
yes, in conjunction with his friend.
anne would have been a delightful performer, had her health allowed her to learn.
you doubt me, cried jane, slightly colouring; indeed, you have no reason.
bennet, one day, what is your opinion now of this sad business of jane s?
and having to relate such a thing of his sister!
said elizabeth, still addressing colonel fitzwilliam.
collins, who, when i am dead, may turn you all out of this house as soon as he pleases.
but i am particularly attached to these young men; and know them to be so much attached to me!
she does not yet leave her dressing-room.
they met again on sunday, and then i saw him too.
i must think your language too strong in speaking of both, replied jane; and i hope you will be convinced of it, by seeing them happy together.
bennet s expectations were fully answered.
elizabeth said nothing, but it gratified her exceedingly; the compliment must be all for herself.
it only shows her being deficient in something herself sense or feeling.
darcy in a most infamous manner.
he now wished it more than ever.
there is, perhaps, a very faint shade of colour for the charge; but it seems to me very faint indeed.
how differently did everything now appear in which he was concerned!
but that gentleman, looking at darcy, seemed to think the country was nothing at all.
nothing in even our author is finer and more delicately touched than the change of his demeanour at the sudden meeting in the grounds of pemberley.
we accordingly went and there i readily engaged in the office of pointing out to my friend the certain evils of such a choice.
oh yes it would be much better to wait till jane was well; and by that time, most likely, captain carter would be at meryton again.
darcy is so violent, that it would be the death of half the good people in meryton, to attempt to place him in an amiable light.
jane listened with astonishment and concern: she knew not how to believe that mr.
after this period, every appearance of acquaintance was dropped.
their society can afford no pleasure that will atone for such wretchedness as this!
the loss of her daughter made mrs.
i am sure there was some great neglect or other on their side, for she is not the kind of girl to do such a thing, if she had been well looked after.
elizabeth awoke the next morning to the same thoughts and meditations which had at length closed her eyes.
recovering himself, however, shortly, he turned to his partner, and said, sir william s interruption has made me forget what we were talking of.
he was on one side of her mother.
long has promised to introduce him.
every disposition of the ground was good; and she looked on the whole scene, the river, the trees scattered on its banks, and the winding of the valley, as far as she could trace it, with delight.
my motive for cautioning you is as follows: we have reason to imagine that his aunt, lady catherine de bourgh, does not look on the match with a friendly eye.
then, observed elizabeth, you must comprehend a great deal in your idea of an accomplished woman.
i shall entreat his pardon for not having done it earlier.
on both sides it was only assertion.
wickham, and of what he had told her, all the way home; but there was not time for her even to mention his name as they went, for neither lydia nor mr.
darcy, that she would not trust herself with an answer; and, therefore, abruptly changing the conversation, talked on indifferent matters till they reached the parsonage.
collins, was convinced that they were talking of the longbourn estate, and resolving to turn herself and her daughters out of the house as soon as mr.
when she was discontented, she fancied herself nervous.
with the kindest concern he came on to longbourn, and broke his apprehensions to us in a manner most creditable to his heart.
repeated elizabeth, in utter amazement.
her resolution was for a short time involuntarily kept by the approach of her sister, who joined her with a cheerful look which showed her better satisfied with their visitors than elizabeth.
but you are not entitled to know mine; nor will such behaviour as this ever induce me to be explicit.
said elizabeth; but the terms, i suppose, must be complied with.
i shall then give over every expectation, every wish of his constancy.
my daughter and my nephew are formed for each other.
about ten or a dozen years ago, before her marriage, she had spent a considerable time in that very part of derbyshire to which he belonged.
what are men to rocks and mountains?
wickham s charge exceedingly shocked her; the more so, as she could bring no proof of its injustice.
you are to understand, miss bennet, that i came here with the determined resolution of carrying my purpose; nor will i be dissuaded from it.
i inquired after their brother, of course.
i will not admit that one speech or one action of this inestimable man is incapable of being reconciled with reality, and i should not wonder if many of these words and actions are historically true.
i am sorry to hear that; but why did you not tell me so before?
he took the hint, and, when mary had finished her second song, said aloud, that will do extremely well, child.
i should like to know how he behaves among strangers.
her astonishment, however, was extreme; and continually was she repeating, why is he so altered?
my child, let me not have the grief of seeing you unable to respect your partner in life.
james s, with very decent composure.
the subject was pursued no further, and the gentlemen soon afterwards went away.
jane looked at her doubtingly.
even scott required hill and mountain and ballad, even coleridge metaphysics and german to enable them to chip the classical shell.
elizabeth, at work in the opposite corner, saw it all with great delight.
how shall we punish him for such a speech?
elizabeth shook her head over this letter.
i know not in what manner, under what form of falsehood, he has imposed on you; but his success is not perhaps to be wondered at, ignorant as you previously were of everything concerning either.
i send no compliments to your mother.
elizabeth tried hard to dissuade him from such a scheme; assuring him that mr.
darcy; that to be in the same room, the same party with him for so many hours together, might be more than i could bear, and that scenes might arise unpleasant to more than myself.
bingley never stirs without him.
they left brighton together on sunday night, and were traced almost to london, but not beyond: they are certainly not gone to scotland.
wickham were returned, and to lament over his absence from the netherfield ball.
i do not mean, however, to assert that we can be justified in devoting too much of our time to music, for there are certainly other things to be attended to.
sir william, how can you tell such a story?
bingley met them with hopes that mrs.
kitty was the only one who shed tears; but she did weep from vexation and envy.
she tried, however, to compose herself to answer him with patience, when he should have done.
those that best pleased her, as placing his conduct in the noblest light, seemed most improbable.
and is miss darcy as handsome as her brother?
their brother, indeed, was the only one of the party whom she could regard with any complacency.
that is not very likely; our authority was too good.
pray make my excuses to pratt for not keeping my engagement, and dancing with him to-night.
lady lucas began directly to calculate, with more interest than the matter had ever so much love and eloquence excited before, how many years longer mr.
my excellent father died about five years ago; and his attachment to mr.
a man in distressed circumstances has not time for all those elegant decorums which other people may observe.
nothing so easy, if you have but the inclination, said elizabeth.
you have liked many a stupider person.
his countenance rather gained in austerity; and he scarcely opened his lips.
but when her mother was gone, jane would not be prevailed on to go down without one of her sisters.
lady catherine will not think the worse of you for being simply dressed.
on miss lucas s persevering, however, she added, very well; if it must be so, it must.
i am not so selfish, however, as to press for it, if inconvenient.
i dare say you will find him very agreeable.
or, why did he thus come a day before he was expected?
gardiner, whose curiosity as to the mode of her intelligence was all alive.
i was sure you could not be so beautiful for nothing!
my father, however, is partial to mr.
respect, esteem, and confidence had vanished for ever; and all his views of domestic happiness were overthrown.
my sister, i am sure, will not hear of her removal.
change of scene might be of service and perhaps a little relief from home may be as useful as anything.
but, my dearest love, tell me what dish mr.
he has many friends, and he is at a time of life when friends and engagements are continually increasing.
miss lucas is married and settled: and one of my own daughters.
miss bennet, replied her ladyship, in an angry tone, you ought to know that i am not to be trifled with.
wickham by each of them; and in the meantime she went after dinner to show her ring and boast of being married to mrs.
he believed him to be imprudent and extravagant; and since this sad affair has taken place, it is said that he left meryton greatly in debt: but i hope this may be false.
had elizabeth s opinion been all drawn from her own family, she could not have formed a very pleasing picture of conjugal felicity or domestic comfort.
you are very cruel, said her sister, you will not let me smile, and are provoking me to it every moment.
your ladyship has declared it to be impossible.
i knew it myself, as it was known to miss bingley; but her brother is even yet ignorant of it.
to this question his daughter replied only with a laugh; and as it had been asked without the least suspicion, she was not distressed by his repeating it.
all connection between us seemed now dissolved.
the two young ladies were summoned from the shrubbery, where this conversation passed, by the arrival of some of the very persons of whom they had been speaking; mr.
you persist, then, in supposing his sisters influence him?
absence had increased her desire of seeing charlotte again, and weakened her disgust of mr.
bennet rejoiced to see jane in undiminished beauty; and more than once during dinner did mr.
on the contrary, she was as much disposed to complain of it as her husband.
she continued in very agitating reflections till the sound of lady catherine s carriage made her feel how unequal she was to encounter charlotte s observation, and hurried her away to her room.
her prudent mother, occupied by the same ideas, forbore to invite him to sit by herself.
darcy they had only seen at church.
and when you have given your ball, she added, i shall insist on their giving one also.
she cared for none of her friends; she wanted no help of his; she would not hear of leaving wickham.
the business was therefore soon settled.
this was one point, with regard to lydia at least, which was now to be settled, and mr.
bennet s leaving them together, after a longer irritation than usual about netherfield and its master, she could not help saying, o that my dear mother had more command over herself!
mary, though pretending not to hear, was somewhat disconcerted; and elizabeth, sorry for her, and sorry for her father s speech, was afraid her anxiety had done no good.
what praise is more valuable than the praise of an intelligent servant?
ah, you do not know what i suffer.
she stared, coloured, doubted, and was silent.
those who chose to be idle certainly might.
the fishing scheme had been renewed the day before, and a positive engagement made of his meeting some of the gentlemen at pemberley by noon.
elizabeth was surprised, but said not a word.
little more than half a day s journey.
i have not a doubt of your doing very well together.
elizabeth, who was left by herself, now smiled at the rapidity and ease with which an affair was finally settled, that had given them so many previous months of suspense and vexation.
but her commendation, though costing her some trouble, could by no means satisfy mr.
but these things happen so often!
a short pause followed this speech, and mrs.
not so much as i could wish, sir: but i dare say he may spend half his time here; and miss darcy is always down for the summer months.
bennet missed his second daughter exceedingly; his affection for her drew him oftener from home than anything else could do.
we have not quite determined how far it shall carry us, said mrs.
she then sat still five minutes longer; but unable to waste such a precious occasion, she suddenly got up, and saying to kitty, come here, my love, i want to speak to you, took her out of the room.
though suspicion was very far from miss bennet s general habits, she was absolutely incredulous here.
i will not trust myself on the subject, replied wickham; i can hardly be just to him.
but bingley has great natural modesty, with a stronger dependence on my judgment than on his own.
i think you said she was a widow, sir?
their table was superlatively stupid.
you know pretty well, i suppose, what has been done for the young people.
jones s shopboy in the street, who had told her that they were not to send any more draughts to netherfield, because the miss bennets were come away, when her civility was claimed towards mr.
and, besides, no traces of them were to be found on the barnet road.
i should as soon call her mother a wit.
nichols was in meryton last night: i saw her passing by, and went out myself on purpose to know the truth of it; and she told me that it was certainly true.
my father is going to london with colonel forster instantly, to try to discover her.
her teeth are tolerable, but not out of the common way; and as for her eyes, which have sometimes been called so fine, i never could perceive anything extraordinary in them.
there is no talk of his coming to netherfield again in the summer; and i have inquired of everybody, too, who is likely to know.
how ardently did she long to know whether any of his were directed in a like manner.
she had even learnt to detect, in the very gentleness which had first delighted her, an affectation and a sameness to disgust and weary.
as she went upstairs to get ready, mrs.
i like her appearance, said elizabeth, struck with other ideas.
the express was sent off directly.
oh, i am not at all afraid of her dying.
hurst, running away without telling us that you were coming out.
they will ruin your happiness.
the picturesque would be spoilt by admitting a fourth.
and have you heard from him often?
he has the promise of an ensigncy in general s regiment, now quartered in the north.
perhaps, by-and-by, i may observe that private balls are much pleasanter than public ones; but now we may be silent.
she read over her aunt s commendation of him again and again.
he stood by her, however, for some minutes, in silence; and, at last, on the young lady s whispering to elizabeth again, he walked away.
my father has gone to london, and jane has written to beg my uncle s immediate assistance, and we shall be off, i hope, in half an hour.
ay, that is because you have the right disposition.
darcy, whose reception of his advances she eagerly watched, and whose astonishment at being so addressed was very evident.
collins was gratified; and with a more smiling solemnity replied, it gives me the greatest pleasure to hear that you have passed your time not disagreeably.
her mother only scolded her for being nonsensical.
bennet, for many years after lydia s birth, had been certain that he would.
i would keep a pack of foxhounds, and drink a bottle of wine every day.
bingley and his sisters came to give their personal invitation for the long expected ball at netherfield, which was fixed for the following tuesday.
this is wholly unexpected; i had not an idea of it.
the eldest of them, a sensible, intelligent young woman, about twenty-seven, was elizabeth s intimate friend.
most earnestly did she labour to prove the probability of error, and seek to clear one, without involving the other.
bingley was quite uncomfortable; his sisters declared that they were miserable.
this room was my late master s favourite room, and these miniatures are just as they used to be then.
darcy asked why he did not marry your sister at once.
if, therefore, an excuse for not keeping his promise should come to his friend within a few days, she added, i shall know how to understand it.
the liberty of communication cannot be mine till it has lost all its value!
we may compare our different opinions.
the boy protested that she should not; she continued to declare that she would; and the argument ended only with the visit.
miss bingley sees that her brother is in love with you and wants him to marry miss darcy.
and there are other circumstances which i am not at liberty which it is not worth while to relate; but his lies about the whole pemberley family are endless.
the younger girls formed hopes of coming out a year or two sooner than they might otherwise have done; and the boys were relieved from their apprehension of charlotte s dying an old maid.
but another spectator letter that of the damsel of fourteen who wishes to marry mr.
what will be his surprise, thought she, when he knows who they are!
she dared not relate the other half of mr.
oh, no, no this is not likely.
bingley thought her quite beautiful, and danced with her twice.
while they were dressing, he came two or three times to their different doors, to recommend their being quick, as lady catherine very much objected to be kept waiting for her dinner.
she follows him to town in the hope of keeping him there, and tries to persuade you that he does not care about you.
after sitting a little while with jane, on miss bingley s appearance and invitation, the mother and three daughters all attended her into the breakfast parlour.
i think it is no sacrifice to join occasionally in evening engagements.
regard for my sister s credit and feelings prevented any public exposure; but i wrote to mr.
it is wonderful, replied wickham; for almost all his actions may be traced to pride; and pride has often been his best friend.
of a fine, stout, healthy love it may.
i am far from attributing any part of mr.
will you be very angry with me, my dear lizzy, if i take this opportunity of saying (what i was never bold enough to say before) how much i like him?
you will never recommend yourself to his friend by so doing.
i admire the activity of your benevolence, observed mary, but every impulse of feeling should be guided by reason; and, in my opinion, exertion should always be in proportion to what is required.
how much you must have gone through!
be that as it may, she saw him go with regret; and in this early example of what lydia s infamy must produce, found additional anguish as she reflected on that wretched business.
my dearest child, she cried, i can think of nothing else.
that they might have met without ill consequence is, perhaps, probable; but his regard did not appear to me enough extinguished for him to see her without some danger.
as for your elizabeth s picture, you must not attempt to have it taken, for what painter could do justice to those beautiful eyes?
there is nothing he would not do for her.
collins was employed in agreeing to everything her ladyship said, thanking her for every fish he won, and apologizing if he thought he won too many.
i would advise you merely to put on whatever of your clothes is superior to the rest there is no occasion for anything more.
an invitation to dinner was soon afterwards despatched; and already had mrs.
that will make thirteen with ourselves, so there will be just room at table for him.
bingley, said elizabeth, must disarm reproof.
she could have added, a young man, too, like you, whose very countenance may vouch for your being amiable.
wickham is blessed with such happy manners as may insure his making friends; whether he may be equally capable of retaining them, is less certain.
gardiner was standing a little behind; and on her pausing, he asked her if she would do him the honour of introducing him to her friends.
in her kind schemes for elizabeth, she sometimes planned her marrying colonel fitzwilliam.
that it ought not to be attempted.
the good news quickly spread through the house; and with proportionate speed through the neighbourhood.
she held out her hand: he kissed it with affectionate gallantry, though he hardly knew how to look, and they entered the house.
he protested that she should receive from him no mark of affection whatever on the occasion.
you must not be too severe upon yourself, replied elizabeth.
of this she was perfectly unaware: to her he was only the man who made himself agreeable nowhere, and who had not thought her handsome enough to dance with.
she saw that he wanted to engage her on the old subject of his grievances, and she was in no humour to indulge him.
say that urgent business calls us home immediately.
there were few people on whose secrecy she would have more confidently depended; but at the same time there was no one whose knowledge of a sister s frailty would have mortified her so much.
collins is a conceited, pompous, narrow-minded, silly man: you know he is, as well as i do; and you must feel, as well as i do, that the woman who marries him cannot have a proper way of thinking.
by this time she is actually with them!
though elizabeth would not, for the mere purpose of obliging lady catherine, have answered this question, she could not but say, after a moment s deliberation, i am not.
but i must tell you how it went off.
except, thought elizabeth, when she goes to ramsgate.
the farewell between herself and mr.
i dare say he often hears worse things said than i am going to say.
the envelope itself was likewise full.
they are in the same profession, you know, only in different lines.
you promised me to insist upon her marrying him.
did she call to refuse her consent?
there is something a little stately in him, to be sure, replied her aunt; but it is confined to his air, and is not unbecoming.
kitty has no discretion in her coughs, said her father; she times them ill.
but our visitor was very obstinate.
her mother impatiently met her at the door of her dressing-room, to ask why lady catherine would not come in again and rest herself.
yes, sir; but i do not know when that will be.
his behaviour was attentive and kind to the utmost.
how much of pleasure or pain it was in his power to bestow!
colonel fitzwilliam, who led the way, was about thirty, not handsome, but in person and address most truly the gentleman.
if his own vanity, however, did not mislead him, he was the cause his pride and caprice were the cause of all that jane had suffered, and still continued to suffer.
with them he is remarkably agreeable.
seriously, i would have you be on your guard.
lydia s going to brighton was all that consoled her for the melancholy conviction of her husband s never intending to go there himself.
collins and myself on this happy event, let me now add a short hint on the subject of another, of which we have been advertised by the same authority.
i longed to know whether he would be married in his blue coat.
i want to be told whether i ought, or ought not, to make our acquaintance in general understand wickham s character.
you certainly do, she replied with a smile; but it does not follow that the interruption must be unwelcome.
under such circumstances, however, he was not likely to be proof against the temptation of immediate relief.
darcy was fixed in astonishment.
darcy must have such extraordinary sources of happiness necessarily attached to her situation, that she could, upon the whole, have no cause to repine.
how very ill eliza bennet looks this morning, mr.
i leave it to yourself to determine, said mr.
we shall often meet, i hope, in hertfordshire.
the country, said darcy, can in general supply but few subjects for such a study.
collins on his return highly gratified mrs.
i would by no means suspend any pleasure of yours, he coldly replied.
what could be the meaning of it?
before elizabeth had time for anything but a blush of surprise, mrs.
bingley s name was scarcely ever mentioned between them.
elizabeth was exceedingly pleased with this proposal, and felt persuaded of her sister s ready acquiescence.
at such a time much might have been said, and silence was very awkward.
people do not die of little trifling colds.
he then recollected her embarrassment a few days before on his reading mr.
for god s sake, say no more of his partners.
collins for having spoken so sensibly, and observed, in a half-whisper to lady lucas, that he was a remarkably clever, good kind of young man.
wickham were, and that he had seen and talked with them both wickham repeatedly, lydia once.
i do assure you that my intimacy has not yet taught me that.
when a woman has five grown-up daughters, she ought to give over thinking of her own beauty.
i will speak to her about it myself directly.
it was not to be supposed that time would give lydia that embarrassment from which she had been so wholly free at first.
let me first see how he behaves, said she; it will then be early enough for expectation.
he is just what a young-man ought to be, said she, sensible, good-humoured, lively; and i never saw such happy manners!
miss bingley was engrossed by mr.
his apparent partiality had subsided, his attentions were over, he was the admirer of some one else.
everything nourishes what is strong already.
why must their marriage be private?
the hall, the dining-room, and all its furniture, were examined and praised; and his commendation of everything would have touched mrs.
no motive can excuse the unjust and ungenerous part you acted there.
and that, i suppose, is one of your sisters?
collins for a few moments, he asked elizabeth in a low voice whether her relations were very intimately acquainted with the family of de bourgh.
but i will no longer importune my young cousin.
she had not been many hours at home, before she found that the brighton scheme, of which lydia had given them a hint at the inn, was under frequent discussion between her parents.
darcy is all politeness, said elizabeth, smiling.
hurst or miss bingley; and even lydia was too much fatigued to utter more than the occasional exclamation of lord, how tired i am!
i am prodigiously proud of him.
they will then join his regiment, unless they are first invited to longbourn; and i understand from mrs.
miss darcy was tall, and on a larger scale than elizabeth; and, though little more than sixteen, her figure was formed, and her appearance womanly and graceful.
i am sure lizzy will be very happy i am sure she can have no objection.
darcy was writing, and miss bingley, seated near him, was watching the progress of his letter, and repeatedly calling off his attention by messages to his sister.
well, he certainly is very agreeable, and i give you leave to like him.
i was very much flattered by his asking me to dance a second time.
it was gratifying to have inspired unconsciously so strong an affection.
she finds miss pope a treasure.
how strange must it appear to him!
kitty, run down and order the carriage.
at least, therefore, i did not assume the character of needless precipitance merely to show off before the ladies.
certainly, sir; and it has the advantage also of being in vogue amongst the less polished societies of the world: every savage can dance.
it is only that he is blessed with greater sweetness of address, and a stronger desire of generally pleasing, than any other man.
arguments are too much like disputes.
he could not help seeing that you were about five times as pretty as every other woman in the room.
she had been watching him the last hour, she said, as he walked up and down the street, and had mr.
bingley must be down again in the summer.
in the first place, she persisted in disbelieving the whole of the matter; secondly, she was very sure that mr.
i comfort myself with thinking, replied jane, that he certainly would not marry lydia, if he had not a real regard for her.
young ladies have great penetration in such matters as these; but i think i may defy even your sagacity to discover the name of your admirer.
she could think of nothing more to say; but if he wished to converse with her, he might have better success.
you are much mistaken if you expect to influence me by such a paltry attack as this.
among those who are at all his equals in consequence, he is a very different man from what he is to the less prosperous.
in consequence of an agreement between the sisters, elizabeth wrote the next morning to her mother, to beg that the carriage might be sent for them in the course of the day.
but every line proved more clearly that the affair, which she had believed it impossible that any contrivance could so represent as to render mr.
georgiana had the highest opinion in the world of elizabeth; though at first she often listened with an astonishment bordering on alarm at her lively, sportive manner of talking to her brother.
he was quite young, wonderfully handsome, extremely agreeable, and, to crown the whole, he meant to be at the next assembly with a large party.
and when the party entered the assembly-room, it consisted of only five altogether: mr.
bennet in every endeavour for recovering lydia.
i began to be afraid you would never come back again.
when the gentlemen had joined them, and tea was over, the card tables were placed.
hurst and her sister scarcely opened their mouths except to complain of fatigue, and were evidently impatient to have the house to themselves.
he acknowledged the truth of it all; and said that business with his steward had occasioned his coming forward a few hours before the rest of the party with whom he had been travelling.
and so would anne, if her health had allowed her to apply.
darcy, she cried: i never in my life saw anyone so much altered as she is since the winter.
you shall hear, then but prepare for something very dreadful.
it must have been his sisters doing.
caroline is incapable of wilfully deceiving anyone; and all that i can hope in this case is, that she is deceived herself.
young women should always be properly guarded and attended, according to their situation in life.
bingley by a housemaid, and some time afterwards from the two elegant ladies who waited on his sisters.
other books were produced, and after some deliberation he chose fordyce s sermons.
as for wickham and lydia, their characters suffered no revolution from the marriage of her sisters.
gardiner, a letter arrived for their father, from a different quarter, from mr.
a fortnight s acquaintance is certainly very little.
i have great hopes of finding him quite the reverse.
i declare, after all, there is no enjoyment like reading!
after welcoming their sisters, they triumphantly displayed a table set out with such cold meat as an inn larder usually affords, exclaiming, is not this nice?
here, sarah, come to miss bennet this moment, and help her on with her gown.
they found mary, as usual, deep in the study of thorough bass and human nature; and had some new extracts to admire and some new observations of threadbare morality to listen to.
even elizabeth began to fear not that bingley was indifferent but that his sisters would be successful in keeping him away.
bennet, accompanied by her two youngest girls, reached netherfield soon after the family breakfast.
as to art, if she has never tried idealism, her realism is real to a degree which makes the false realism of our own day look merely dead-alive.
and your assurance of it, i suppose, carried immediate conviction to him.
i do not know a place in the country that is equal to netherfield.
she is grown so brown and coarse!
she had a sister married to a mr.
on such encouragement to ask, elizabeth was forced to put it out of her power, by running away.
accompanied by a violent yawn.
his father was an excellent man, said mrs.
collins s proposal accepted with as good a grace as she could.
i should not mind anything at all.
first, that you will allow me the free use of my understanding on the present occasion; and, secondly, of my room.
what a contrast between him and his friend!
but, whatever may be their own wishes, it is very unlikely they should have opposed their brother s.
oh, but their removing from the chaise into a hackney coach is such a presumption!
i am excessively attentive to all those things.
i should have considered it as part of my duty, and the exertion would soon have been nothing.
jane was so admired, nothing could be like it.
collins, but likewise by lady catherine and her daughter, to whom i have related the affair.
your father was gone, your uncle at home, and, as i said before, they had a great deal of talk together.
and what do you think she said besides?
assistance is impossible; condolence, insufferable.
i was in great hopes that one of you would have got a husband before you came back.
and my aunt philips is sure it would do me a great deal of good, added kitty.
elizabeth almost stared at her.
younger sons cannot marry where they like.
wickham had resolved on quitting the militia.
could she have seen half as much love in mr.
elizabeth listened as little as she could, but there was no escaping the frequent mention of wickham s name.
a man who has once been refused!
this was exactly as it should be; for the young man wanted only regimentals to make him completely charming.
he had done all this for a girl whom he could neither regard nor esteem.
forgive me; and if you persist in indifference, do not make me your confidante.
i have nothing either to hope or fear, and nothing to reproach him with.
soon after you left me on saturday, i was fortunate enough to find out in what part of london they were.
norris, and one or two others to their company, but who, in one instance certainly, and perhaps in others, are still superior to them.
he can be a conversible companion if he thinks it worth his while.
lydia s voice was heard in the vestibule; the door was thrown open, and she ran into the room.
this he considered sufficient encouragement, and the avowal of all that he felt and had long felt for her immediately followed.
i often tell young ladies, that no excellence in music is to be acquired without constant practice.
her daughters listened in silence to this effusion, sensible that any attempt to reason with or soothe her would only increase the irritation.
you are lucky in having such a master.
the letter, perhaps, began in bitterness, but it did not end so.
let me recommend you, however, as a friend, not to give implicit confidence to all his assertions; for, as to mr.
do not let us quarrel about the past.
that i was desirous of believing her indifferent is certain; but i will venture to say that my investigations and decisions are not usually influenced by my hopes or fears.
one has got all the goodness, and the other all the appearance of it.
that is his notion of christian forgiveness!
and, taking her hand, he would have given it to mr.
balls will be absolutely prohibited, unless you stand up with one of your sisters.
if there were anyone that one could apply to, with a probability of gaining such a clue as that, it might be of essential consequence.
i must confess that he did not speak so well of wickham as he formerly did.
darcy took her advice, and did finish his letter.
miss bennet he acknowledged to be pretty; but she smiled too much.
whatever can give his sister any pleasure, is sure to be done in a moment.
darcy might leave the country, but that he should stand his ground; yet he had avoided the netherfield ball the very next week.
i am sure he will be vastly happy to oblige you, and will save all the best of the coveys for you.
lady catherine had been rendered so exceedingly angry by the contents of her nephew s letter, that charlotte, really rejoicing in the match, was anxious to get away till the storm was blown over.
not a word passed between the sisters concerning bingley; but elizabeth went to bed in the happy belief that all must speedily be concluded, unless mr.
miss bennet still looked all amazement.
darcy did not wish for cards, and mr.
it was reasonable, however, to hope that they would not continue long.
with a triumphant smile, they were told, that it was ten miles round.
and when we do return, it shall not be like other travellers, without being able to give one accurate idea of anything.
the apothecary came when breakfast was over, they were joined by the sisters; and elizabeth began to like them herself, when she saw how much affection and solicitude they showed for jane.
ay, there she comes, continued mrs.
she resolved to give her the information herself; and therefore charged mr.
i am more likely to want time than courage, elizabeth.
i wish i could say anything to comfort you, replied elizabeth; but it is wholly out of my power.
i cannot pretend to be sorry, said wickham, after a short interruption, that he or that any man should not be estimated beyond their deserts; but with him i believe it does not often happen.
that the miss lucases and the miss bennets should meet to talk over a ball was absolutely necessary; and the morning after the assembly brought the former to longbourn to hear and to communicate.
yes; there is nothing in that.
darcy related the mistake which had occasioned his intruding on miss bennet, and, after sitting a few minutes longer, without saying much to anybody, went away.
he then said, i have received a letter this morning that has astonished me exceedingly.
i can comprehend your going on charmingly, when you had once made a beginning; but what could set you off in the first place?
miss bingley moved with alacrity to the pianoforte, and after a polite request that elizabeth would lead the way, which the other as politely and more earnestly negatived, she seated herself.
lizzy, my dear, i want to speak to you.
it taught me to hope, said he, as i had scarcely ever allowed myself to hope before.
darcy; and you, yourself, when last at longbourn, heard in what manner he spoke of the man who had behaved with such forbearance and liberality towards him.
elizabeth had hoped that his resentment might shorten his visit, but his plan did not appear in the least affected by it.
a younger son, you know, must be inured to self-denial and dependence.
he had, to be sure, done much.
reynolds, pointing to another of the miniatures, is my master and very like him.
she had known, it seems, of their being in love with each other many weeks.
from what he said of miss darcy, i was thoroughly prepared to see a proud, reserved, disagreeable girl.
bingley, who seems good-humour itself, and is, i really believe, truly amiable, be in friendship with such a man?
but i can assure the young ladies that i come prepared to admire them.
he did not judge your father to be a person whom he could so properly consult as your uncle, and therefore readily postponed seeing him till after the departure of the former.
james s had made him courteous.
at length there was nothing more to be said; the ladies drove on, and the others returned into the house.
she is almost three-and-twenty!
wickham frequently invited her to come and stay with her, with the promise of balls and young men, her father would never consent to her going.
oh dear, yes; but you must own she is very plain.
the evening passed quietly, unmarked by anything extraordinary.
what are you telling miss bennet?
why should they try to influence him?
they seemed each of them to have the happiest memories in the world.
at such a moment, the arrival of her friend was a sincere pleasure to elizabeth, though in the course of their meetings she must sometimes think the pleasure dearly bought, when she saw mr.
miss bennet paused a little, and then replied, surely there can be no occasion for exposing him so dreadfully.
i thought i understood from the gardiners that you had.
we are not in a way to know what mr.
astonishment, apprehension, and even horror, oppressed her.
it is of all subjects my delight.
with a renewal of tenderness, however, they repaired to her room on leaving the dining-parlour, and sat with her till summoned to coffee.
do not distress me by the idea.
i fancy she was wanted about the mince-pies.
but how little of permanent happiness could belong to a couple who were only brought together because their passions were stronger than their virtue, she could easily conjecture.
vain, ignorant, idle, and absolutely uncontrolled!
at length, however, the question was asked by her uncle; and she turned away with alarm, while mrs.
i believe she did and i am sure she could not have bestowed her kindness on a more grateful object.
collins s wife by this time, had not it been for her own perverseness.
her performance was pleasing, though by no means capital.
jones s being sent for immediately; while his sisters, convinced that no country advice could be of any service, recommended an express to town for one of the most eminent physicians.
you had better neglect your relations than run the risk of offending your patroness.
it is unlucky, said she, after a short pause, that you should not be able to see your friends before they leave the country.
lydia, my love, ring the bell.
my total ignorance of the connection must plead my apology.
bennet and kitty walked off, and as soon as they were gone, mr.
collins s side, and as many bows on sir william s, they departed.
bennet, you will wait on him, of course.
bingley were at piquet, and mrs.
bennet seemed incapable of fatigue while enumerating the advantages of the match.
this she would not hear of; but she was not so unwilling to comply with their brother s proposal; and it was settled that mr.
they were more disturbed, more unequal, than she had often seen them.
i never heard you speak ill of a human being in my life.
we must endeavour to forget all that has passed on either side, said jane: i hope and trust they will yet be happy.
elizabeth silently attended her.
they were excessively sorry to go!
the garden in which stands my humble abode is separated only by a lane from rosings park, her ladyship s residence.
neither had anything occurred in the intelligence of their lambton friends that could materially lessen its weight.
my dear father, i congratulate you.
gardiner did a question which she could not answer without confusion said scarcely anything.
oh, brother, how kind you are!
bennet was, in fact, too much overpowered to say a great deal while sir william remained; but no sooner had he left them than her feelings found a rapid vent.
musgrove s self-deceiving regrets over her son.
bennet planned the courses that were to do credit to her housekeeping, when an answer arrived which deferred it all.
unless the elder brother is very sickly, i suppose you would not ask above fifty thousand pounds.
it will then be publicly seen, that on both sides we meet only as common and indifferent acquaintance.
darcy danced only once with mrs.
it is difficult to know whether he is most agreeable when talking to his wife, or when putting mr.
why, jane you never dropped a word of this you sly thing!
he repeated the question, with some surprise at her silence.
her eldest daughter endeavoured to give some relief to the violence of these transports, by leading her thoughts to the obligations which mr.
they are going to be encamped near brighton; and i do so want papa to take us all there for the summer!
i did not think caroline in spirits, were her words, but she was very glad to see me, and reproached me for giving her no notice of my coming to london.
gardiner declared his willingness, and elizabeth was applied to for her approbation.
with his notions of dignity, he would probably feel that the arguments, which to elizabeth had appeared weak and ridiculous, contained much good sense and solid reasoning.
he was well, but so much engaged with mr.
the day of his and lydia s departure soon came; and mrs.
darcy, he stopped, with a bow of superior courtesy, to compliment him on his dancing and his partner.
i knew nothing at all of lady catherine s connections.
he made no answer; and they were again silent till they had gone down the dance, when he asked her if she and her sisters did not very often walk to meryton.
i think, however, though the thought will doubtless seem heretical to more than one school of critics, that construction is not the highest merit, the choicest gift, of the novelist.
it was owing to him, to his reserve and want of proper consideration, that wickham s character had been so misunderstood, and consequently that he had been received and noticed as he was.
a resemblance in good-humour and good spirits had recommended her and lydia to each other, and out of their three months acquaintance they had been intimate two.
has he, has my nephew, made you an offer of marriage?
bingley was unaffectedly civil in his answer, and forced his younger sister to be civil also, and say what the occasion required.
your profusion makes me saving; and if you lament over him much longer, my heart will be as light as a feather.
wickham s society was of material service in dispelling the gloom which the late perverse occurrences had thrown on many of the longbourn family.
and her calling here was prodigiously civil!
that is to say, you had given your permission.
collins, the visit to hunsford, the derbyshire tour fit in after the same unostentatious, but masterly fashion.
yes; but he seemed to like his second better.
collins, was a most humiliating picture!
well, monday morning came, and i was in such a fuss!
and yet how many things have happened!
if we thought alike of miss bingley, replied jane, your representation of all this might make me quite easy.
lady catherine de bourgh, she replied, has very lately given him a living.
do you talk by rule, then, while you are dancing?
i am most thankful that the discovery is made in time for me to pay my respects to him, which i am now going to do, and trust he will excuse my not having done it before.
do not be afraid of my running into any excess, of my encroaching on your privilege of universal good-will.
when my eyes were opened to his real character, oh!
gardiner, who was walking arm in arm with elizabeth, gave her a look expressive of her wonder.
elizabeth felt jane s pleasure.
miss darcy looked as if she wished for courage enough to join in it; and sometimes did venture a short sentence, when there was least danger of its being heard.
darcy then consider the rashness of your original intention as atoned for by your obstinacy in adhering to it?
elizabeth hesitated; but her knees trembled under her, and she felt how little would be gained by her attempting to pursue them.
dear sir, i must trouble you once more for congratulations.
but, perhaps, he could not in her mother s presence be what he was before her uncle and aunt.
the dejection was almost universal.
he was not seated by her: perhaps that was the reason of his silence; but it had not been so in derbyshire.
on that head, therefore, i shall be uniformly silent: and you may assure yourself that no ungenerous reproach shall ever pass my lips when we are married.
i am very glad you have somebody who thinks of those things.
you know not what you are about.
hill began instantly to express her joy.
so far each recital confirmed the other; but when she came to the will, the difference was great.
bennet s carriage was to meet them, they quickly perceived, in token of the coachman s punctuality, both kitty and lydia looking out of a dining-room upstairs.
you are over scrupulous, surely.
she looked at jane, and smiled, and shook her head, by turns.
darcy returned within the stated time.
while mary is adjusting her ideas, he continued, let us return to mr.
but the fact is, that we are very different sort of men, and that he hates me.
the favour of your company has been much felt, i assure you.
her answer was warmly in his favour.
but, my dear sister, can i be happy, even supposing the best, in accepting a man whose sisters and friends are all wishing him to marry elsewhere?
darcy can please where he chooses.
to complete the favourable impression, she then told him what mr.
elizabeth was sitting by herself the next morning, and writing to jane, while mrs.
i do not trust my own partiality.
darcy is neither by honour nor inclination confined to his cousin, why is not he to make another choice?
darcy had been overrated, elizabeth had never yet answered mrs.
i know you will do him such ample justice, that i am growing every moment more unconcerned and indifferent.
that he should even speak to her was amazing!
her figure was elegant, and she walked well; but darcy, at whom it was all aimed, was still inflexibly studious.
bennet sat quite still, and unable to utter a syllable.
i have been meditating on the very great pleasure which a pair of fine eyes in the face of a pretty woman can bestow.
i beg your pardon; one knows exactly what to think.
the recollection of what i then said, of my conduct, my manners, my expressions during the whole of it, is now, and has been many months, inexpressibly painful to me.
but when this subject was succeeded by his account of mr.
conceal the unhappy truth as long as it is possible.
my mother means well; but she does not know, no one can know, how much i suffer from what she says.
i have been used to consider poetry as the food of love, said darcy.
my dear, said maria, quite shocked at the mistake, it is not lady catherine.
and there was my aunt, all the time i was dressing, preaching and talking away just as if she was reading a sermon.
but what does he say of the living?
elizabeth had never been more at a loss to make her feelings appear what they were not.
i cannot fix on the hour, or the spot, or the look, or the words, which laid the foundation.
it is wonderful how many families i have been the means of supplying in that way.
darcy looked just as he had been used to look in hertfordshire, paid his compliments, with his usual reserve, to mrs.
but how came you to tell us that he was so disagreeable?
amongst the most violent against him was mrs.
it was my brother gardiner s drawing up, too, and i wonder how he came to make such an awkward business of it.
and what sort of young lady is she?
she certainly did not hate him.
his own father did not long survive mine; and within half a year from these events mr.
there was another reason, too, for her opposition.
after a few minutes reflection, however, she continued, i do remember his boasting one day, at netherfield, of the implacability of his resentments, of his having an unforgiving temper.
and did colonel forster appear to think ill of wickham himself?
his guilt and his descent appear, by your account, to be the same, said elizabeth, angrily; for i have heard you accuse him of nothing worse than of being the son of mr.
why did the forsters ever let her go out of their sight?
she had also asked him twice to dine at rosings, and had sent for him only the saturday before, to make up her pool of quadrille in the evening.
bennet saw that her whole heart was in the subject; and, affectionately taking her hand, said, in reply, do not make yourself uneasy, my love.
her daughters were eagerly called to partake of her joy.
yes, and her petticoat; i hope you saw her petticoat, six inches deep in mud, i am absolutely certain, and the gown which had been let down to hide it not doing its office.
elizabeth will soon be the wife of mr.
and have you answered the letter?
however, your coming just at this time is the greatest of comforts, and i am very glad to hear what you tell us of long sleeves.
our situation with regard to lady catherine s family is, indeed, the sort of extraordinary advantage and blessing which few can boast.
you must contrive to send somebody.
the conversation soon turned upon fishing; and she heard mr.
all young ladies accomplished!
gardiner, with occasional help from elizabeth, the conversation was carried on.
he is rich, to be sure, and you may have more fine clothes and fine carriages than jane.
in her own past behaviour, there was a constant source of vexation and regret: and in the unhappy defects of her family, a subject of yet heavier chagrin.
they walked on without knowing in what direction.
poor reynolds, she was always very fond of me.
darcy, drawing near elizabeth, said to her, do you not feel a great inclination, miss bennet, to seize such an opportunity of dancing a reel?
his character sunk on every review of it; and, as a punishment for him, as well as a possible advantage to jane, she seriously hoped he might really soon marry mr.
they proceeded in silence along the gravel walk that led to the copse; elizabeth was determined to make no effort for conversation with a woman who was now more than usually insolent and disagreeable.
the secret of that charm many men and not a few women, from miss austen herself downwards, have felt, and like most charms it is a thing rather to be felt than to be explained.
she was convinced that she could have been happy with him, when it was no longer likely they should meet.
nay, were your friend lady catherine to know me, i am persuaded she would find me in every respect ill qualified for the situation.
collins had been taken in; thirdly, she trusted that they would never be happy together; and, fourthly, that the match might be broken off.
she owed her greatest relief to her friend miss lucas, who often joined them, and good-naturedly engaged mr.
darcy had to decide on the propriety of his friend s inclination; or why, upon his own judgment alone, he was to determine and direct in what manner that friend was to be happy.
lizzy is not a bit better than the others: and i am sure she is not half so handsome as jane, nor half so good-humoured as lydia.
they now walked on in silence; each of them deep in thought.
the idea of his returning no more elizabeth treated with the utmost contempt.
cried elizabeth; but how could that be?
darcy found, on further inquiry, that your father was still with him, but would quit town the next morning.
to walk three miles, or four miles, or five miles, or whatever it is, above her ancles in dirt, and alone, quite alone!
if i had ever learnt, i should have been a great proficient.
i did not believe her to be indifferent because i wished it; i believed it on impartial conviction, as truly as i wished it in reason.
darcy it was now a matter of anxiety to think well; and, as far as their acquaintance reached, there was no fault to find.
you know him too well to doubt the rest.
after a silence of several minutes, he came towards her in an agitated manner, and thus began: in vain have i struggled.
when my niece georgiana went to ramsgate last summer, i made a point of her having two men-servants go with her.
the two first dances, however, brought a return of distress: they were dances of mortification.
it was not known that wickham had a single relation with whom he kept up any connection, and it was certain that he had no near one living.
bennet made no answer; and each of them, deep in thought, continued silent till they reached the house.
at present, however, i consider myself as quite fixed here.
elizabeth received them with all the forbearance of civility; and at the request of the gentlemen remained at the instrument till her ladyship s carriage was ready to take them all home.
one ought not to repine; but, to be sure, it would have been such a thing for me!
and there is something of dignity in his countenance, that would not give one an unfavourable idea of his heart.
that is exactly what i should have supposed of you, said elizabeth.
indeed you must go, for it will be impossible for us to visit him, if you do not.
allow me, by the way, to observe, my fair cousin, that i do not reckon the notice and kindness of lady catherine de bourgh as among the least of the advantages in my power to offer.
i might, perhaps, wish to be informed why, with so little endeavour at civility, i am thus rejected.
it is impossible for me to be impartial.
and as to laughter, we will not expose ourselves, if you please, by attempting to laugh without a subject.
i can now say with the housekeeper, that though some people may call him proud, i have seen nothing of it.
sometimes one officer, sometimes another, had been her favourite, as their attentions raised them in her opinion.
its banks were neither formal nor falsely adorned.
more thoughtfulness and less anxiety to please, than when they last met, were plainly expressed.
she perfectly remembered everything that had passed in conversation between wickham and herself in their first evening at mr.
elizabeth was surprised, however, that wickham should consent to such a scheme; and, had she consulted only her own inclination, any meeting with him would have been the last object of her wishes.
oh, you mean jane, i suppose, because he danced with her twice.
but then i have always supposed it to be my own fault because i would not take the trouble of practising.
bingley and his sister pressed them to stay longer, she could spare them very well.
bennet, that you should be so ready to think your own children silly.
bingley did not do justice to his own disposition.
have you seen any pleasant men?
annesley to miss darcy had been given, to remind her of her post.
miss bingley warmly resented the indignity he had received, in an expostulation with her brother for talking such nonsense.
bingley, said her mother, i beg you will come here and shoot as many as you please on mr.
it was a subject which they could not mention before me.
the reason of this sudden removal was soon evident.
darcy s house, and mentioned with raptures some plans of the latter with regard to new furniture.
i do not know when i have been more shocked, said she.
the very mention of anything concerning the match threw her into an agony of ill-humour, and wherever she went she was sure of hearing it talked of.
let the other young ladies have time to exhibit.
bennet, when elizabeth had read the note aloud, if your daughter should have a dangerous fit of illness if she should die it would be a comfort to know that it was all in pursuit of mr.
in such an exigence my uncle s advice and assistance would be everything in the world; he will immediately comprehend what i must feel, and i rely upon his goodness.
elizabeth laughed heartily at this picture of herself, and said to colonel fitzwilliam, your cousin will give you a very pretty notion of me, and teach you not to believe a word i say.
had i been in love, i could not have been more wretchedly blind.
i believe her to be both in a great degree, replied wickham; i have not seen her for many years; but i very well remember that i never liked her, and that her manners were dictatorial and insolent.
you must give me leave to judge for myself, and pay me the compliment of believing what i say.
she was not sorry, however, to have the recital of them interrupted by the entrance of the lady from whom they sprang.
this distinction applies to books as well as to men and women; and in the case of the not very numerous authors who are the objects of the personal affection, it brings a curious consequence with it.
she will make him a very proper wife.
elizabeth passed the chief of the night in her sister s room, and in the morning had the pleasure of being able to send a tolerable answer to the inquiries which she very early received from mr.
yes, ma am, that he was indeed; and his son will be just like him just as affable to the poor.
bennet: she would have been glad to be equally satisfied that her daughter had meant to encourage him by protesting against his proposals, but she dared not believe it, and could not help saying so.
bennet, who quarrelled with no compliments, answered most readily, you are very kind, sir, i am sure; and i wish with all my heart it may prove so; for else they will be destitute enough.
i was uncomfortable enough, i was very uncomfortable i may say unhappy.
he has not an ill-natured look.
she was even sensible of some pleasure, though mixed with regret, on finding how steadfastly both she and her uncle had been persuaded that affection and confidence subsisted between mr.
my mother was in hysterics; and though i endeavoured to give her every assistance in my power, i am afraid i did not do so much as i might have done.
colonel forster will, i dare say, do everything in his power to satisfy us on this head.
could he have colonel fitzwilliam in his thoughts?
there is not a bit of fish to be got to-day.
elizabeth was surprised, but agreed to it immediately.
gardiner would have been highly gratified by her niece s beginning the subject.
i certainly have not the talent which some people possess, said darcy, of conversing easily with those i have never seen before.
as soon as they entered the copse, lady catherine began in the following manner: you can be at no loss, miss bennet, to understand the reason of my journey hither.
when this was done, she had a less active part to play.
in everything else she is as good-natured a girl as ever lived.
she saw the indelicacy of putting himself forward as he had done, and the inconsistency of his professions with his conduct.
have you any idea, lizzy, who this gentleman is?
i should be glad to take a turn in it, if you will favour me with your company.
lady catherine seemed resigned.
it is all for jane s sake, you know; and there is no occasion for talking to him except just now and then; so do not put yourself to inconvenience.
of his former way of life, nothing had been known in hertfordshire but what he told meeting accidentally in town himself.
he is perfectly well-behaved, polite, and unassuming, said her uncle.
elizabeth found herself quite equal to the scene, and could observe the three ladies before her composedly.
this was very amiable; but charlotte s kindness extended farther than elizabeth had any conception of: its object was nothing less than to secure her from any return of mr.
elizabeth made no attempt to reason with her mother, but remained quietly in the hall till she and kitty were out of sight, then returned into the drawing-room.
all meryton seemed striving to blacken the man who, but three months before, had been almost an angel of light.
i wonder that the very pride of this mr.
to be sure that did seem as if he admired her indeed, i rather believe he did i heard something about it but i hardly know what something about mr.
darcy, was one of the best men that ever breathed, and the truest friend i ever had; and i can never be in company with this mr.
her impatience for this second letter was as well rewarded as impatience generally is.
i cannot but wonder, however, at her having any such fears now, because if he had at all cared about me, we must have met long, long ago.
bennet, through the assistance of servants, contrived to have the earliest tidings of it, that the period of anxiety and fretfulness on her side be as long as it could.
darcy drew his chair a little towards her, and said, you cannot have a right to such very strong local attachment.
i thought him very sly; he hardly ever mentioned your name.
darcy, the gardener s expression of surprise, on beholding his master, must immediately have told it.
there was not much in the question, nor in the preceding remark; but there was a look and a manner which gave them meaning.
these recollections will not do at all.
a glass of wine; shall i get you one?
darcy of pemberley, and lady anne, could not have appeared with propriety in a different manner.
resignation to inevitable evils is the duty of us all: the peculiar duty of a young man who has been so fortunate as i have been, in early preferment; and, i trust, i am resigned.
with a book, he was regardless of time; and on the present occasion he had a good deal of curiosity as to the event of an evening which had raised such splendid expectations.
i did not know before that i had two daughters on the brink of matrimony.
we were always encouraged to read, and had all the masters that were necessary.
i described and enforced them earnestly.
the paling of rosings park was their boundary on one side.
thoughtlessness, want of attention to other people s feelings, and want of resolution, will do the business.
you may depend upon my not mentioning it.
jane will be quite an old maid soon, i declare.
this is not quite enough to make her understand his character.
elizabeth said no more; but her mind could not acquiesce.
he inquired how far netherfield was from meryton; and, after receiving her answer, asked in a hesitating manner how long mr.
that is an uncommon advantage, and uncommon i hope it will continue, for it would be a great loss to me to have many such acquaintance.
but she had no reason to fear mr.
they are descended, on the maternal side, from the same noble line; and, on the father s, from respectable, honourable, and ancient, though untitled, families.
our instrument is a capital one, probably superior to you shall try it some day.
that is capital, added her sister; and they both laughed heartily.
it was spoken of again while they were at dinner, when mr.
the bennets were engaged to dine with the lucases; and again, during the chief of the day, was miss lucas so kind as to listen to mr.
said he, with a look of doubt.
nor was darcy s vindication, though grateful to her feelings, capable of consoling her for such discovery.
anxious and uneasy, the period which passed in the drawing-room before the gentlemen came, was wearisome and dull to a degree that almost made her uncivil.
the note was immediately despatched, and its contents as quickly complied with.
your father would depend on your resolution and good conduct, i am sure.
if he no longer cares for me, why silent?
what could your ladyship propose by it?
elizabeth now began to revive.
but as to your other objection, i am afraid it will hardly hold good.
darcy it was welcome intelligence: elizabeth had been at netherfield long enough.
bennet retired to the library, as was his custom, and mary went upstairs to her instrument.
can you deny that you have done it?
what a meeting for her, when she first sees my aunt!
we shall be at newcastle all the winter, and i dare say there will be some balls, and i will take care to get good partners for them all.
elizabeth of course belongs to the allegro or allegra division of the army of venus.
collins s making two offers of marriage within three days was nothing in comparison of his being now accepted.
the day passed most pleasantly away; the morning in bustle and shopping, and the evening at one of the theatres.
gardiner has done for them, because wickham has not sixpence of his own.
i should say, one of her ladyship s carriages, for she has several.
well, but now for my news: it is about dear wickham; too good for the waiter, is not it?
what advantage can it be to you to offend mr.
i am, said he, with a firm voice.
and accordingly she did turn, and they walked towards the parsonage together.
while thus engaged, elizabeth had a fair opportunity of deciding whether she most feared or wished for the appearance of mr.
lydia does not leave me because she is married; but only because her husband s regiment happens to be so far off.
but we are none of us consistent; and in his behaviour to me there were stronger impulses even than pride.
but to speak with such civility, to inquire after her family!
oh, do not repeat what i then said.
there he had talked to her friends when he could not to herself.
bennet, and we shall very soon settle it with her, i am sure.
he dined with us the next day, and was to leave town again on wednesday or thursday.
collins was wishing to marry you.
collins was called from his amiable charlotte by the arrival of saturday.
what relates to yourself is as follows: having thus offered you the sincere congratulations of mrs.
when the first transports of rage which had produced his activity in seeking her were over, he naturally returned to all his former indolence.
the conduct of neither, if strictly examined, will be irreproachable; but since then we have both, i hope, improved in civility.
now i am quite happy, said she, for you will be as happy as myself.
a young man, such as you describe mr.
what sort of a girl is miss darcy?
that is exactly the question which i expected you to ask.
to make herself agreeable to all in seeing bingley, her thoughts naturally flew to her sister; and oh!
how you must have hated me after that evening!
this was not very consoling to mrs.
i will have no reserves from you.
had i known what i ought, what i dared to do!
widely different was the effect of a second perusal.
i have no such injuries to resent.
sure he will not leave london before he has found them.
if my vanity had taken a musical turn, you would have been invaluable; but as it is, i would really rather not sit down before those who must be in the habit of hearing the very best performers.
she was met in the vestibule by lydia, who, flying to her, cried in a half whisper, i am glad you are come, for there is such fun here!
at last she recollected that she had been travelling, and they talked of matlock and dovedale with great perseverance.
it would vex me, indeed, to see you again the dupe of miss bingley s pretended regard.
the hill, crowned with wood, from which they had descended, receiving increased abruptness from the distance, was a beautiful object.
philips, the lucases, and all their other neighbours, and to hear herself called mrs.
wickham s happiness and her own was perforce delayed a little longer, and mr.
your attendance upon her has been too much for you.
i shall pull it to pieces as soon as i get home, and see if i can make it up any better.
oh, lizzy, why am i thus singled from my family, and blessed above them all?
darcy appeared again, when, looking at him, she was a little relieved by his smile.
is not this an agreeable surprise?
but of every other neglect i can believe him capable.
gardiner looked at her niece, desirous of knowing how she, whom the invitation most concerned, felt disposed as to its acceptance, but elizabeth had turned away her head.
elizabeth, who had expected to find in her as acute and unembarrassed an observer as ever mr.
it is a compliment which i never pay to any place if i can avoid it.
women fancy admiration means more than it does.
i knew enough of your disposition to be certain, that had you been absolutely, irrevocably decided against me, you would have acknowledged it to lady catherine frankly and openly.
in a fortnight they were to go, and once gone, she hoped there could be nothing more to plague her on his account.
what an excellent father you have, girls, said she, when the door was shut.
darcy, and all that he had suffered from him, was now openly acknowledged and publicly canvassed; and everybody was pleased to think how much they had always disliked mr.
darcy; but he will vouch for the good conduct, the probity and honour, of his friend, and is perfectly convinced that mr.
your portion is unhappily so small, that it will in all likelihood undo the effects of your loveliness and amiable qualifications.
elizabeth honestly and heartily expressed her delight in the prospect of their relationship.
i told you in the library, you know, that i should never speak to you again, and you will find me as good as my word.
when he was gone, they were certain at least of receiving constant information of what was going on; and their uncle promised, at parting, to prevail on mr.
collins and charlotte appeared at the door, and the carriage stopped at the small gate, which led by a short gravel walk to the house, amidst the nods and smiles of the whole party.
i have not been accustomed to such language as this.
i know not, miss elizabeth, said he, whether mrs.
copyright 1894 by george allen.
do you then pretend to be ignorant of it?
unless where they like women of fortune, which i think they very often do.
lydia came to us, and wickham had constant admission to the house.
darcy s shameful boast of what misery he had been able to inflict gave her a keener sense of her sister s sufferings.
bennet replied that he had not.
denny concerning whose return from london lydia came to inquire, and he bowed as they passed.
again his astonishment was obvious; and he looked at her with an expression of mingled incredulity and mortification.
tease calmness of temper and presence of mind!
affectation of candour is common enough; one meets with it everywhere.
i have heard you mention them with consideration these twenty years at least.
and with these words he hastily left the room, and elizabeth heard him the next moment open the front door and quit the house.
bennet very dull for several days.
when they left the high road for the lane to hunsford, every eye was in search of the parsonage, and every turning expected to bring it in view.
he began to feel the danger of paying elizabeth too much attention.
i do not cough for my own amusement, replied kitty, fretfully.
while she spoke, wickham looked as if scarcely knowing whether to rejoice over her words or to distrust their meaning.
do clear them, too, or we shall be obliged to think ill of somebody.
as a brother, a landlord, a master, she considered how many people s happiness were in his guardianship!
if i wished to think slightingly of anybody s children, it should not be of my own, however.
bennet, as she stood at a window the next morning, if that disagreeable mr.
excuse my interference; it was kindly meant.
hope was over, entirely over; and when jane could attend to the rest of the letter, she found little, except the professed affection of the writer, that could give her any comfort.
hurst soon found even his open petition rejected.
bennet, as soon as they were out of the house, as ever i saw.
said he; that is rather singular.
and what arts did he use to separate them?
ay, no doubt: but that is what a governess will prevent; and if i had known your mother, i should have advised her most strenuously to engage one.
but nothing can be done; i know very well that nothing can be done.
you must allow me to tell you how ardently i admire and love you.
why should he have it more than anybody else?
they have known her much longer than they have known me; no wonder if they love her better.
i will answer for it, he never cared three straws about her.
and rising as she thus spoke, she would have quitted the room, had not mr.
miss bingley told me, said jane, that he never speaks much unless among his intimate acquaintance.
if that had been nearer, she would not have gone so soon.
her feelings as she read were scarcely to be defined.
he promises fairly; and i hope among different people, where they may each have a character to preserve, they will both be more prudent.
bennet had been to epsom and clapham, before his arrival, but without gaining any satisfactory information; and that he was now determined to inquire at all the principal hotels in town, as mr.
she put down the letter, weighed every circumstance with what she meant to be impartiality deliberated on the probability of each statement but with little success.
you are quite a visit in my debt, mr.
i have no pleasure in talking to undutiful children.
the dear colonel rallied his spirits tolerably till just at last; but darcy seemed to feel it most acutely more, i think, than last year.
i was so afraid, you know, that something would happen to put it off, and then i should have gone quite distracted.
one morning, soon after their arrival, as she was sitting with her two elder sisters, she said to elizabeth, lizzy, i never gave you an account of my wedding, i believe.
after making every possible inquiry on that side of london, colonel f.
his accompanying them was a double advantage: she felt all the compliment it offered to herself; and it was most acceptable as an occasion of introducing him to her father and mother.
it must be his own doing; he is his own master.
she hardly knew how to suppose that she could be an object of admiration to so great a man, and yet that he should look at her because he disliked her was still more strange.
it is enough to know they are discovered: i have seen them both but perhaps you would like to read it then it is as i always hoped, cried jane: they are married!
but no letter appeared, and she was completely puzzled.
and as i come back, i can call on lady lucas and mrs.
who would have thought of my meeting with perhaps a nephew of lady catherine de bourgh in this assembly!
i have the greatest dislike in the world to that sort of thing.
we will not quarrel for the greater share of blame annexed to that evening, said elizabeth.
where there is fortune to make the expense of travelling unimportant, distance becomes no evil.
it is only evident that miss bingley does not mean he should.
bingley s heart were entertained.
miss bingley succeeded no less in the real object of her civility: mr.
bingley, his two sisters, the husband of the eldest, and another young man.
my overhearings were more to the purpose than yours, eliza, said charlotte.
their eyes instantly met, and the cheeks of each were overspread with the deepest blush.
darcy is engaged to my daughter.
i wonder who first discovered the efficacy of poetry in driving away love!
have you any other objection, said elizabeth, than your belief of my indifference?
perhaps preparing for his marriage with miss de bourgh, said elizabeth.
the gardiners stayed only one night at longbourn, and set off the next morning with elizabeth in pursuit of novelty and amusement.
bennet and kitty, though she was perfectly unknown to them, even inferior to what elizabeth felt.
and, my dear jane, i never saw you look in greater beauty.
darcy should hear the first raptures of her joy, than the first vehemence of her disapprobation.
so high and so conceited, that there was no enduring him!
you take an eager interest in that gentleman s concerns, said darcy, in a less tranquil tone, and with a heightened colour.
the day passed much as the day before had done.
collins himself, has been charged with exaggeration.
your superior knowledge of your sister must make the latter probable.
darcy was attending them to their carriage, miss bingley was venting her feelings in criticisms on elizabeth s person, behaviour, and dress.
she answered him with cold civility.
wickham, perhaps, is my favourite; but i think i shall like your husband quite as well as jane s.
she could neither wonder nor condemn; but the belief of his self-conquest brought nothing consolatory to her bosom, afforded no palliation of her distress.
collins was eloquent in her praise.
we must not be so ready to fancy ourselves intentionally injured.
an easy distance do you call it?
and in the first place, let us hear what has happened to you all since you went away.
you alluded to something else.
but i have other provocations.
with respect to that other, more weighty accusation, of having injured mr.
at length, however, the remarks of her companions on her absence of mind roused her, and she felt the necessity of appearing more like herself.
gardiner added, in his letter, that they might expect to see their father at home on the following day, which was saturday.
after many pauses and many trials of other subjects, elizabeth could not help reverting once more to the first, and saying, i am astonished at his intimacy with mr.
but do you think she would be prevailed on to go back with us?
for we must attribute this happy conclusion, she added, in a great measure to his kindness.
she is gone down to her uncle at liverpool; gone to stay.
had lydia and her mother known the substance of her conference with her father, their indignation would hardly have found expression in their united volubility.
how earnestly did she then wish that her former opinions had been more reasonable, her expressions more moderate!
we dine at rosings twice every week, and are never allowed to walk home.
jenkinson, who lives with them.
can you, yourself, lizzie, so wholly give him up, as to believe him capable of it?
but can you think that lydia is so lost to everything but love of him, as to consent to live with him on any other terms than marriage?
are you consulting your own feelings in the present case, or do you imagine that you are gratifying mine?
instead of viewing them as a stranger, i might have rejoiced in them as my own, and welcomed to them as visitors my uncle and aunt.
but why should you wish to persuade me that i feel more than i acknowledge?
he is a sweet-tempered, amiable, charming man.
elizabeth most thankfully consented, and a servant was despatched to longbourn, to acquaint the family with her stay, and bring back a supply of clothes.
bingley replied that he did, and made his congratulations.
she could not help frequently glancing her eye at mr.
it is because he will not give himself the trouble.
on being made acquainted with the present mr.
another day i will do the same; i will sit in my library, in my nightcap and powdering gown, and give as much trouble as i can, or perhaps i may defer it till kitty runs away.
it was absolutely necessary to interrupt him now.
she was overpowered by shame and vexation.
bingley from your sister, and the other, that i had, in defiance of various claims, in defiance of honour and humanity, ruined the immediate prosperity and blasted the prospects of mr.
her report was highly favourable.
she found it difficult to obtain even a word from her beyond a monosyllable.
we must trespass a little longer on your kindness.
tell her that you insist upon her marrying him.
who could have imagined that we should receive an invitation to dine there (an invitation, moreover, including the whole party) so immediately after your arrival?
my father and maria are to come to me in march, added charlotte, and i hope you will consent to be of the party.
forster to meryton, from whence they were to set out early the next morning.
how thankful am i, that we never let them know what has been said against him; we must forget it ourselves.
she was going to the butcher s, she told me, on purpose to order in some meat on wednesday, and she has got three couple of ducks just fit to be killed.
her keenest attention was awakened: she longed to hear more; and was grateful to her uncle for saying, there are very few people of whom so much can be said.
attention, forbearance, patience with darcy, was injury to wickham.
were the questions with which she amused herself.
when the card tables were placed, he had an opportunity of obliging her, in return, by sitting down to whist.
darcy changed colour; but the emotion was short, and he listened without attempting to interrupt her while she continued, i have every reason in the world to think ill of you.
he, who had always inspired in herself a respect which almost overcame her affection, she now saw the object of open pleasantry.
i can no longer help thanking you for your unexampled kindness to my poor sister.
you have said quite enough, madam.
there is not a finer county in england than derbyshire.
it was rather small, but well built and convenient; and everything was fitted up and arranged with a neatness and consistency, of which elizabeth gave charlotte all the credit.
bingley on the subject of the ball, and abruptly reminded him of his promise; adding, that it would be the most shameful thing in the world if he did not keep it.
his character is thereby complete.
the distinction had, perhaps, been felt too strongly.
i have not been in the habit of brooking disappointment.
yes, indeed; his friends may well rejoice in his having met with one of the very few sensible women who would have accepted him, or have made him happy if they had.
darcy, and devoted all his time to the care of the pemberley property.
he said as little as he had ever been in the habit of saying; made no mention of the business that had taken him away; and it was some time before his daughters had courage to speak of it.
they are gone off together from brighton.
gardiner and her niece, however, did her justice, and pitied her.
in this room they were received by miss darcy, who was sitting there with mrs.
elizabeth was so much caught by what passed, as to leave her very little attention for her book; and, soon laying it wholly aside, she drew near the card-table, and stationed herself between mr.
why, i must confess that i love him better than i do bingley.
it may do very well for the others, replied mr.
but afterwards she seemed to improve on you, and i believe you thought her rather pretty at one time.
he danced only four dances, though gentlemen were scarce; and, to my certain knowledge, more than one young lady was sitting down in want of a partner.
what is there of good to be expected?
her husband allowed her to talk on without interruption while the servants remained.
whatever he might afterwards persuade her to, it was not on her side a scheme of infamy.
their situation was awkward enough; but hers she thought was still worse.
that lady, i suppose, is your mother?
i was angry, perhaps, at first, but my anger soon began to take a proper direction.
collins, she addressed a variety of questions to maria and elizabeth, but especially to the latter, of whose connections she knew the least, and who, she observed to mrs.
now was the moment for her resolution to be executed; and while her courage was high, she immediately said, mr.
because you were grave and silent, and gave me no encouragement.
philips s vulgarity was another, and, perhaps, a greater tax on his forbearance; and though mrs.
was there no good in your affectionate behaviour to jane, while she was ill at netherfield?
jane looked well, and elizabeth had little opportunity of studying her spirits, amidst the various engagements which the kindness of her aunt had reserved for them.
i have never heard him say so; but it is probable that he may spend very little of his time there in future.
bennet thus began the projected conversation: oh, mr.
jones says we must not think of moving her.
do let us have a little music, cried miss bingley, tired of a conversation in which she had no share.
but he had given a reason for his interference, which asked no extraordinary stretch of belief.
and it is such a good joke, too, that you should have gone this morning, and never said a word about it till now.
bingley for his kindness to jane, with an apology for troubling him also with lizzy.
darcy, by the feelings which prevailed on his entering the room; and then, though but a moment before she had believed her wishes to predominate, she began to regret that he came.
i will not tell you what it is.
philips s manners and politeness.
bennet s visit, and determining when they should ask him to dinner.
bennet got rid of her two most deserving daughters.
the last born has as good a right to the pleasures of youth as the first.
and if he does, colonel forster will hire him.
i cannot do justice to his kindness.
but, my dear elizabeth, she added, what sort of girl is miss king?
you can hardly doubt the purport of my discourse, however your natural delicacy may lead you to dissemble; my attentions have been too marked to be mistaken.
you are each of you so complying, that nothing will ever be resolved on; so easy, that every servant will cheat you; and so generous, that you will always exceed your income.
you will be a very happy woman.
she wrote again when the visit was paid, and she had seen miss bingley.
bennet was firm: it soon led to another; and mrs.
did you speak from your own observation, said she, when you told him that my sister loved him, or merely from my information last spring?
darcy only smiled; and the general pause which ensued made elizabeth tremble lest her mother should be exposing herself again.
she burst into tears as she alluded to it, and for a few minutes could not speak another word.
darcy s objections; and never had she before been so much disposed to pardon his interference in the views of his friend.
lydia was bid by her two eldest sisters to hold her tongue; but mr.
were it certain that lady catherine would think so, said mr.
how could i be so silly as to wish it!
i have certainly meant well through the whole affair.
my temper i dare not vouch for.
bennet withdrew to the library, she saw mr.
much more rational, my dear caroline, i dare say; but it would not be near so much like a ball.
elizabeth had mentioned her name to her mother on her ladyship s entrance, though no request of introduction had been made.
he could even listen to sir william lucas, when he complimented him on carrying away the brightest jewel of the country, and expressed his hopes of their all meeting frequently at st.
and so, my dear sister, i find, from our uncle and aunt, that you have actually seen pemberley.
but the morrow passed off much better than she expected; for mrs.
my visit was not long, as caroline and mrs.
i had not at that time the honour of knowing any lady in the assembly beyond my own party.
bingley, and a charming prospect over that gravel walk.
i would not on any account trifle with her affectionate solicitude, or allow her to hear it from anyone but myself.
your own heart, your own conscience, must tell you why i come.
bingley was by no means deficient; but darcy was clever.
no; he never saw him till the other morning at meryton.
your tempers are by no means unlike.
she is a great reader, and has no pleasure in anything else.
collins s correspondence for any consideration.
cried he, with more feeling than politeness; then recollecting himself, i will not detain you a minute; but let me, or let the servant, go after mr.
bingley himself, instead of a ceremonious card.
elizabeth replied that it was.
they will take care not to outrun their income.
they contained no actual complaint, nor was there any revival of past occurrences, or any communication of present suffering.
i shall be glad to have the library to myself as soon as may be.
collins s character, connections, and situation in life, i am convinced that my chance of happiness with him is as fair as most people can boast on entering the marriage state.
she is now about miss elizabeth bennet s height, or rather taller.
its effect was most extraordinary; for, on first hearing it, mrs.
but make a virtue of it by all means.
his understanding and opinions all please me; he wants nothing but a little more liveliness, and that, if he marry prudently, his wife may teach him.
people did say, you meant to quit the place entirely at michaelmas; but, however, i hope it is not true.
you could scarcely escape discredit and misery.
collins; and whatever might be his feelings towards her friend, met her with every appearance of composure.
ay, because she asked him at last how he liked netherfield, and he could not help answering her; but she said he seemed very angry at being spoke to.
i am afraid you will be angry.
supposing him to be attached to me, would my refusing to accept his hand make him wish to bestow it on his cousin?
they will join me early to-morrow, he continued, and among them are some who will claim an acquaintance with you, mr.
his affection for her soon sunk into indifference: hers lasted a little longer; and, in spite of her youth and her manners, she retained all the claims to reputation which her marriage had given her.
his complexion became pale with anger, and the disturbance of his mind was visible in every feature.
what can have induced him to behave so cruelly?
i do not wish to avoid the walk.
you will easily comprehend, from these particulars, that mr.
she is all affability and condescension, and i doubt not but you will be honoured with some portion of her notice when service is over.
one may be continually abusive without saying anything just; but one cannot be always laughing at a man without now and then stumbling on something witty.
miss bingley, however, was incapable of disappointing mr.
yes, thought elizabeth; that would be a delightful scheme, indeed, and completely do for us at once.
forster, said she, it will be quite shocking to send her away!
i did not know that you intended to walk, said miss bingley, in some confusion, lest they had been overheard.
what a pity it is, mamma, we did not all go!
you would have been less amiable in my eyes had there not been this little unwillingness; but allow me to assure you that i have your respected mother s permission for this address.
collins, when she draws the moral of lydia s fall.
i speak nothing but the truth.
that such a consequence as this should ensue, you may easily believe was far enough from my thoughts.
i was never more surprised than by his behaviour to us.
they were of course all intending to be surprised: but their astonishment was beyond their expectation; and on the part of mrs.
bingley, said her husband; it is a person whom i never saw in the whole course of my life.
if it was to be a secret, said jane, say not another word on the subject.
the rest of the evening brought her little amusement.
but self, though it would intrude, could not engross her.
he spoke of it as a certain event, of which the time alone could be undecided.
she answered in the affirmative; and, unable to resist the temptation, added, when you met us there the other day, we had just been forming a new acquaintance.
as all conversation was thereby at an end, elizabeth soon afterwards left the room.
she was now in an irritation as violent from delight as she had ever been fidgety from alarm and vexation.
but it ought to be done; and if you will give me a sheet of paper it shall be done directly.
bennet perhaps surpassing the rest; though when the first tumult of joy was over, she began to declare that it was what she had expected all the while.
we will go round the park every day.
it is the greatest of favours when miss de bourgh comes in.
now, be sincere; did you admire me for my impertinence?
gardiner, who, fatigued by the exercise of the morning, found elizabeth s arm inadequate to her support, and consequently preferred her husband s.
elizabeth was chiefly struck with his extraordinary deference for lady catherine, and his kind intention of christening, marrying, and burying his parishioners whenever it were required.
though i thought it would be very good fun if i was.
at present i will say nothing about it.
the gardiners stayed a week at longbourn; and what with the philipses, the lucases, and the officers, there was not a day without its engagement.
i pity, though i cannot help blaming, her.
it was not in her nature, however, to increase her vexations by dwelling on them.
i do not at all comprehend her reason for wishing to be intimate with me; but, if the same circumstances were to happen again, i am sure i should be deceived again.
bingley was to bring twelve ladies and seven gentlemen with him to the assembly.
bennet, with little cessation, of his house and garden at hunsford.
collins, in return for his last.
the venison was roasted to a turn and everybody said, they never saw so fat a haunch.
my uncle is to send a servant for us.
yet it did, and even the third.
but against this there were objections; and she finally resolved that it could be the last resource, if her private inquiries as to the absence of the family were unfavourably answered.
his father, miss bennet, the late mr.
i am sure you will be very comfortable there.
no, i should have turned in a moment.
i have nothing to say against him: he is a most interesting young man; and if he had the fortune he ought to have, i should think you could not do better.
darcy, who never looks at any woman but to see a blemish, and who probably never looked at you in his life!
a great deal more passed at the other table.
choose properly, choose a gentlewoman for my sake, and for your own; let her be an active, useful sort of person, not brought up high, but able to make a small income go a good way.
elizabeth obeyed; and, running into her own room for her parasol, attended her noble guest downstairs.
he expressed no regret for what he had done which satisfied her; his style was not penitent, but haughty.
it is very hard to think that she might have been mr.
he listened to her with perfect indifference, while she chose to entertain herself in this manner; and as his composure convinced her that all was safe, her wit flowed along.
their journey was performed without much conversation, or any alarm; and within four hours of their leaving hunsford they reached mr.
gardiner was a sensible, gentlemanlike man, greatly superior to his sister, as well by nature as education.
but if he does it any more, i shall certainly let him know that i see what he is about.
in a few days more, we may gain some news of them; and till we know that they are not married, and have no design of marrying, do not let us give the matter over as lost.
on the evening before my going to london, said he, i made a confession to him, which i believe i ought to have made long ago.
she looked at jane to see how she bore it; but jane was very composedly talking to bingley.
darcy, though she had not before known its extent, agreed equally well with his own words.
his affection was proved to have been sincere, and his conduct cleared of all blame, unless any could attach to the implicitness of his confidence in his friend.
elizabeth listened, wondered, doubted, and was impatient for more.
the former was divided between admiration of the brilliancy which exercise had given to her complexion and doubt as to the occasion s justifying her coming so far alone.
bingley was ready, georgiana was eager, and darcy determined, to be pleased.
elizabeth could bear it no longer.
had colonel forster seen denny himself?
darcy s character, though he had assured her that respect for the father would always prevent his exposing the son.
as elizabeth had no longer any interest of her own to pursue, she turned her attention almost entirely on her sister and mr.
are you so severe upon your own sex as to doubt the possibility of all this?
they were soon gone again, rising from their seats with an activity which took their brother by surprise, and hurrying off as if eager to escape from mrs.
her aunt assured her that she was; and elizabeth, having thanked her for the kindness of her hints, they parted, a wonderful instance of advice being given on such a point without being resented.
pray go to see them, with sir william and maria.
cried elizabeth, with the greatest satisfaction.
this information, however, startled mrs.
i never heard anything so abominable.
i admire all my three sons-in-law highly, said he.
on the strength of darcy s regard, bingley had the firmest reliance, and of his judgment the highest opinion.
but these are not jane s feelings; she is not acting by design.
neither could she deny the justice of his description of jane.
one seems so forlorn without them.
he is a pleasant fellow, and would jilt you creditably.
my mother was taken ill immediately, and the whole house in such confusion!
darcy, her sister scarcely less so; and as for mr.
it has been my own doing, and i ought to feel it.
he arranges the business just as he pleases.
elizabeth s misery increased at such unnecessary, such officious attention!
i should be sorry, you know, to think ill of a young man who has lived so long in derbyshire.
bennet, who had calculated on her daughters remaining at netherfield till the following tuesday, which would exactly finish jane s week, could not bring herself to receive them with pleasure before.
and with the knowledge of your ill opinion too!
we both know that he has been profligate in every sense of the word; that he has neither integrity nor honour; that he is as false and deceitful as he is insinuating.
darcy s further notice: though often standing within a very short distance of her, quite disengaged, he never came near enough to speak.
this is a wretched beginning, indeed!
to be fond of dancing was a certain step towards falling in love; and very lively hopes of mr.
have you never happened to see her there?
bennet, offended by his manner of mentioning a country neighbourhood.
elizabeth quietly answered undoubtedly; and, after an awkward pause, they returned to the rest of the family.
bingley; and the train of agreeable reflections which her observations gave birth to made her perhaps almost as happy as jane.
pray let me hear what you have to accuse him of, cried colonel fitzwilliam.
an hour, however, saw the whole completed; and mr.
it is, i believe, too little yielding; certainly too little for the convenience of the world.
bingley, in consequence of it, before they did.
not these two or three years, perhaps.
far be it from me, he presently continued, in a voice that marked his displeasure, to resent the behaviour of your daughter.
she explained what its effects on her had been, and how gradually all her former prejudices had been removed.
i, who have prided myself on my discernment!
but the gloom of lydia s prospect was shortly cleared away; for she received an invitation from mrs.
it may, perhaps, be pleasant, replied charlotte, to be able to impose on the public in such a case; but it is sometimes a disadvantage to be so very guarded.
all was acknowledged, and half the night spent in conversation.
lady catherine, sir william, and mr.
not handsome enough to dance with!
then showing her purchases, look here, i have bought this bonnet.
you were disgusted with the women who were always speaking, and looking, and thinking for your approbation alone.
is miss darcy much grown since the spring?
let me take it in the best light, in the light in which it may be understood.
he wrote me a few lines on wednesday, to say that he had arrived in safety, and to give me his directions, which i particularly begged him to do.
bennet invited him to dine with them; but, with many expressions of concern, he confessed himself engaged elsewhere.
you thought me then devoid of every proper feeling, i am sure you did.
upon this signal, the youngest of her daughters put herself forward.
but, lizzy, you look as if you did not enjoy it.
i had much rather go in the coach.
bingley was obliged to be in town the following day, and consequently unable to accept the honour of their invitation, etc.
it has connected him nearer with virtue than any other feeling.
happy shall i be when his stay at netherfield is over!
elizabeth, immediately recognizing the livery, guessed what it meant, and imparted no small degree of surprise to her relations, by acquainting them with the honour which she expected.
cried elizabeth, as soon as they were by themselves.
have not you always hated him?
no, kitty, i have at least learnt to be cautious, and you will feel the effects of it.
of neither darcy nor wickham could she think, without feeling that she had been blind, partial, prejudiced, absurd.
yes, my youngest is not sixteen.
calling back the servant, therefore, she commissioned him, though in so breathless an accent as made her almost unintelligible, to fetch his master and mistress home instantly.
gardiner s curiosity; it was not their wish to force her communication.
five daughters brought up at home without a governess!
but, my dear, you must indeed go and see mr.
we can all plague and punish one another.
what a letter is this, to be written at such a moment!
it was an animating subject, and mrs.
well, jane, make haste and tell us; make haste, my love.
i have been making the tour of the park, he replied, as i generally do every year, and intended to close it with a call at the parsonage.
it was not without an effort, meanwhile, that she could wait even for longbourn, before she told her sister of mr.
if he fears me, why come hither?
bennet accepted the challenge, observing that he acted very wisely in leaving the girls to their own trifling amusements.
wickham has deserved much less attention from mr.
i have just had a letter from jane, with such dreadful news.
bennet, and i dare say she is a very agreeable woman.
she told the story, however, with great spirit among her friends; for she had a lively, playful disposition, which delighted in anything ridiculous.
and now nothing remains for me but to assure you in the most animated language of the violence of my affection.
but, lizzy, you have been very sly, very reserved with me.
he can have nothing to say to me that anybody need not hear.
every day added something to their knowledge of the officers names and connections.
darcy, she was directly retreating.
it is something to think of, and gives her a sort of distinction among her companions.
something, he supposed, might be attributed to his connection with them, but yet he had never met with so much attention in the whole course of his life.
five thousand pounds was settled by marriage articles on mrs.
you are charmingly grouped, and appear to uncommon advantage.
they went to the library, therefore, and asked their father whether he would not wish them to make it known to her.
he then shut the door, and, coming up to her, claimed the good wishes and affection of a sister.
everything being settled between them, mr.
yes, that is what makes it amusing.
the garden sloping to the road, the house standing in it, the green pales and the laurel hedge, everything declared they were arriving.
collins, being in fact much better fitted for a walker than a reader, was extremely well pleased to close his large book, and go.
elizabeth took up some needlework, and was sufficiently amused in attending to what passed between darcy and his companion.
gardiner himself did not expect any success from this measure; but as his brother was eager in it, he meant to assist him in pursuing it.
i should infinitely prefer a book.
but they were entirely ignorant of what had passed; and their raptures continued, with little intermission, to the very day of lydia s leaving home.
haggerston has our directions, and all will be completed in a week.
his principal object must be to discover the number of the hackney coach which took them from clapham.
this event had at last been despaired of, but it was then too late to be saving.
at five o clock the two ladies retired to dress, and at half-past six elizabeth was summoned to dinner.
but pride where there is a real superiority of mind pride will be always under good regulation.
you have now done your duty by her, and must fret no longer.
the whole party were in hopes of a letter from mr.
when darcy returned to the saloon, miss bingley could not help repeating to him some part of what she had been saying to his sister.
my fingers, said elizabeth, do not move over this instrument in the masterly manner which i see so many women s do.
she answered him in the usual way; and, after a moment s pause, added, my eldest sister has been in town these three months.
send back your answer as soon as you can, and be careful to write explicitly.
jane looked a little paler than usual, but more sedate than elizabeth had expected.
the latter was thinking only of his breakfast.
but you know married women have never much time for writing.
i want to talk very seriously.
you will not find him more favourably spoken of by anyone.
elizabeth disdained the appearance of noticing this civil reflection, but its meaning did not escape, nor was it likely to conciliate her.
annesley, a genteel, agreeable-looking woman, whose endeavour to introduce some kind of discourse proved her to be more truly well-bred than either of the others; and between her and mrs.
elizabeth, feeling really anxious, determined to go to her, though the carriage was not to be had: and as she was no horsewoman, walking was her only alternative.
i happened to overhear the gentleman himself mentioning to the young lady who does the honours of this house the names of his cousin miss de bourgh, and of her mother, lady catherine.
you deserve no such attention.
even elizabeth might have found some trial of her patience in weather which totally suspended the improvement of her acquaintance with mr.
the invitation was accepted, of course, and at a proper hour they joined the party in lady catherine s drawing-room.
but on her returning to the drawing-room, when her letter was finished, she saw, to her infinite surprise, there was reason to fear that her mother had been too ingenious for her.
with what delighted pride she afterwards visited mrs.
adieu to disappointment and spleen.
she concluded with many good wishes that lady lucas might soon be equally fortunate, though evidently and triumphantly believing there was no chance of it.
i have faults enough, but they are not, i hope, of understanding.
well, colonel fitzwilliam, what do i play next?
since the shire were first quartered in meryton, nothing but love, flirtation, and officers, have been in her head.
sir william and lady lucas are determined to go, merely on that account; for in general, you know, they visit no new comers.
she will be taken good care of.
a man of honour could not have doubted the intention, but mr.
darcy had brought with him a colonel fitzwilliam, the younger son of his uncle, lord ; and, to the great surprise of all the party, when mr.
let us hope for better things.
every time they met, it was more decided and remarkable.
one cannot wonder that so very fine a young man, with family, fortune, everything in his favour, should think highly of himself.
bingley, so easily falls in love with a pretty girl for a few weeks, and, when accident separates them, so easily forgets her, that these sort of inconstancies are very frequent.
i rather wished than believed him to be sincere; but, at any rate, was perfectly ready to accede to his proposal.
there is so much of gratitude or vanity in almost every attachment, that it is not safe to leave any to itself.
i was sure you loved your girls too well to neglect such an acquaintance.
of whom does jane ever think ill?
in point of composition, said mary, his letter does not seem defective.
darcy mean, said she to charlotte, by listening to my conversation with colonel forster?
colonel forster did own that he had often suspected some partiality, especially on lydia s side, but nothing to give him any alarm.
oh, what hours of transport we shall spend!
it is really too distressing, i am sure you must feel it so.
it is a great comfort to have you so rich; and when you have nothing else to do, i hope you will think of us.
elizabeth felt all the impertinence of her questions, but answered them very composedly.
you make me laugh, charlotte; but it is not sound.
till the next morning, however, she was not aware of all the felicity of her contrivance.
now, kitty, you may cough as much as you choose, said mr.
it suddenly struck her that it might be from lady catherine, and she anticipated with dismay all the consequent explanations.
oh, it must be my uncle s doings!
gardiner began to wish to be at home, it was settled that she and her children should go to london at the same time that mr.
i should like it beyond anything!
bingley and jane, she had never doubted; but she had always attributed to miss bingley the principal design and arrangement of them.
they insist also on my seeing mr.
he took the hint and soon began with, this seems a very comfortable house.
he was always to have gone on saturday, and to saturday he still meant to stay.
allow me to say, lady catherine, that the arguments with which you have supported this extraordinary application have been as frivolous as the application was ill-judged.
much as i respect them, i believe i thought only of you.
on the contrary, every particular relative to his sister was meant to be kept as much as possible to myself; and if i endeavour to undeceive people as to the rest of his conduct, who will believe me?
by you, i was properly humbled.
bennet, you are wanted immediately; we are all in an uproar.
no look appeared on either side that spoke particular regard.
to elizabeth, however, he voluntarily acknowledged that the necessity of his absence had been self-imposed.
bennet had so carefully provided for the entertainment of her brother and sister, that they did not once sit down to a family dinner.
but we must stem the tide of malice, and pour into the wounded bosoms of each other the balm of sisterly consolation.
bennet deigned not to make any reply; but, unable to contain herself, began scolding one of her daughters.
how humiliating is this discovery!
kitty then owned, with a very natural triumph on knowing more than the rest of us, that in lydia s last letter she had prepared her for such a step.
but no such happy marriage could now teach the admiring multitude what connubial felicity really was.
it was necessary to make this circumstance a matter of pleasure, because on such occasions it is the etiquette; but no one was less likely than mrs.
i think it would not be very likely to promote sisterly affection or delicacy of mind.
darcy to me, pray, that i should be afraid of him?
darcy; the latter of whom, however, could not be prevailed on to join in their censure of her, in spite of all miss bingley s witticisms on fine eyes.
collins has made an offer to lizzy, and she will not have him.
gardiner s letter, or to relate her own change of sentiment towards him.
i have, therefore, made up my mind to tell you that i do not want to dance a reel at all; and now despise me if you dare.
it was the favourite wish of his mother, as well as of hers.
collins seemed to sink into insignificance; to the young ladies he certainly was nothing; but he had still at intervals a kind listener in mrs.
she felt that jane s feelings, though fervent, were little displayed, and that there was a constant complacency in her air and manner, not often united with great sensibility.
they had often attempted it before: but it was a subject on which mrs.
i dare say she will; she has got over the most trying age.
she then spoke of the letter, repeating the whole of its contents as far as they concerned george wickham.
mary and kitty have been very kind, and would have shared in every fatigue, i am sure, but i did not think it right for either of them.
wickham is by no means a respectable young man.
the advice was followed readily, for the feverish symptoms increased, and her head ached acutely.
and what has been done, what has been attempted, to recover her?
i must not decide on my own performance.
he was a tall, heavy-looking young man of five-and-twenty.
gardiner, who was several years younger than mrs.
bennet had the pleasure of receiving her brother and his wife, who came, as usual, to spend the christmas at longbourn.
she grew absolutely ashamed of herself.
we have tried two or three subjects already without success, and what we are to talk of next i cannot imagine.
anxiety on jane s behalf was another prevailing concern; and mr.
collins she thought with equal certainty, and with considerable, though not equal, pleasure.
everything was too recent for gaiety, but the evening passed tranquilly away; there was no longer anything material to be dreaded, and the comfort of ease and familiarity would come in time.
there was too much to be thought, and felt, and said, for attention to any other objects.
he found her as handsome as she had been last year; as good-natured, and as unaffected, though not quite so chatty.
if he wishes to avoid seeing me he must go.
it was a comfort to elizabeth to consider that jane could not have been wearied by long expectations.
the first week of their return was soon gone.
his belief of her sister s insensibility she instantly resolved to be false; and his account of the real, the worst objections to the match, made her too angry to have any wish of doing him justice.
when they repaired to the dining-room, elizabeth eagerly watched to see whether bingley would take the place which, in all their former parties, had belonged to him, by her sister.
gardiner and elizabeth talked of all that had occurred during their visit, as they returned, except what had particularly interested them both.
they returned, therefore, in good spirits to longbourn, the village where they lived, and of which they were the principal inhabitants.
her fellow-travellers the next day were not of a kind to make her think him less agreeable.
how rich and how great you will be!
hurst, principally occupied in playing with her bracelets and rings, joined now and then in her brother s conversation with miss bennet.
elizabeth went away with her head full of him.
elizabeth could hardly help smiling, as she assured her that had not been the case.
i will make no promise of the kind.
but what, said she, after a pause, can have been his motive?
beyond a doubt they do wish him to choose miss darcy, replied jane; but this may be from better feelings than you are supposing.
she approached, and saw the likeness of mr.
that is all very proper and civil, i am sure, said mrs.
excuse me, for i must speak plainly.
they look upon it quite as their own, i dare say, whenever that happens.
my uncle and aunt and i were to go together; and the others were to meet us at the church.
forster promised to have a little dance in the evening; (by-the-bye, mrs.
her sister made not the smallest objection, and the pianoforte was opened; and darcy, after a few moments recollection, was not sorry for it.
jane went to him instantly, kissed him, and thanked him for his goodness.
at our time of life, it is not so pleasant, i can tell you, to be making new acquaintances every day; but for your sakes we would do anything.
she may even have been one in the further sense that, like her own mr.
my dear brother, at last i am able to send you some tidings of my niece, and such as, upon the whole, i hope will give you satisfaction.
why, at that rate, you will have been here only six weeks.
now, lizzy, i think i have surprised you.
lady catherine, said she, you have given me a treasure.
lady catherine then observed, your father s estate is entailed on mr.
gardiner abused her stupidity.
and then we were so merry all the way home!
certainly, replied elizabeth, there are such people, but i hope i am not one of them.
you are not well enough; you cannot go yourself.
but i cannot find out that jane saw anything of him in london.
pemberley was now georgiana s home; and the attachment of the sisters was exactly what darcy had hoped to see.
darcy, she saw, on looking up, that colonel fitzwilliam was meeting her.
i assure you that i have long been most heartily ashamed of it.
bennet, as the carriage drove up to the door; her husband looked impenetrably grave; her daughters, alarmed, anxious, uneasy.
bennet wished to understand by it that he thought of paying his addresses to one of her younger girls, and mary might have been prevailed on to accept him.
she is on her road somewhere, i dare say; and so, passing through meryton, thought she might as well call on you.
in a few minutes she was joined by bingley, whose conference with her father had been short and to the purpose.
darcy said very little, and mr.
how much i shall have to tell!
but you would not wish to be dancing while she is ill?
we talked and laughed so loud, that anybody might have heard us ten miles off!
he is nothing to us, you know, and i am sure i never want to see him again.
most earnestly did she then entreat him to lose no more time before he wrote.
it is not of peculiar, but of general evils, which i am now complaining.
the park paling was still the boundary on one side, and she soon passed one of the gates into the ground.
bennet was prevented replying by the entrance of the footman with a note for miss bennet; it came from netherfield, and the servant waited for an answer.
i would not be so fastidious as you are, cried bingley, for a kingdom!
did it, said he, did it soon make you think better of me?
you will not think of quitting it in a hurry, i hope, though you have but a short lease.
never since reading jane s second letter had she entertained a hope of wickham s meaning to marry her.
may i ask to what these questions tend?
i must speak to hill this moment.
nobody wants him to come; though i shall always say that he used my daughter extremely ill; and, if i was her, i would not have put up with it.
i see what you are feeling, replied charlotte; you must be surprised, very much surprised, so lately as mr.
does your charge give you much trouble?
it was necessary to laugh when she would rather have cried.
she has two nieces of her own.
not lydia only, but all were concerned in it; and after the first exclamations of surprise and horror, mr.
when the ladies were separating for the toilette, he said to elizabeth, do not make yourself uneasy, my dear cousin, about your apparel.
another entreaty that she would be serious, however, produced the desired effect; and she soon satisfied jane by her solemn assurances of attachment.
had she found jane in any apparent danger, mrs.
the morrow produced no abatement of mrs.
they were certainly no friends to his acquaintance with me, which i cannot wonder at, since he might have chosen so much more advantageously in many respects.
after sitting long enough to admire every article of furniture in the room, from the sideboard to the fender, to give an account of their journey, and of all that had happened in london, mr.
bennet and lydia are going in the carriage to meryton.
gardiner expressed an inclination to see the place again.
in spite of having been at st.
with the gardiners they were always on the most intimate terms.
take almost any frenchman, except the late m.
he was as much awake to the novelty of attention in that quarter as elizabeth herself could be, and unconsciously closed his book.
the latter was much more agreeable than his companion expected.
i am not now to learn, replied mr.
if he means to be but little at netherfield, it would be better for the neighbourhood that he should give up the place entirely, for then we might possibly get a settled family there.
collins s triumph, in consequence of this invitation, was complete.
darcy s contempt seemed abundantly increasing with the length of his second speech; and at the end of it he only made him a slight bow, and moved another way: mr.
darcy would connect himself with a family, where to every other objection would now be added an alliance and relationship of the nearest kind with the man whom he so justly scorned.
and if i had not a letter to write myself, i might sit by you, and admire the evenness of your writing, as another young lady once did.
who would have thought she could be so thin and small!
i am determined never to speak of it again i do not believe that he will ever live at netherfield any more.
darcy is uncommonly kind to mr.
she shared in their attendance on mrs.
she has a very good notion of fingering, though her taste is not equal to anne s.
you do not blame me, however, for refusing him?
you have a house in town, i conclude?
the suspicions which had just arisen of mr.
i have no reason, i assure you, said he, to be dissatisfied with my reception.
darcy had described as the idleness and vice of many years continuance.
though darcy could never receive him at pemberley, yet, for elizabeth s sake, he assisted him further in his profession.
but if i do not take your likeness now, i may never have another opportunity.
i do not know how you will ever make him amends for his kindness; or me either, for that matter.
they all paint tables, cover screens, and net purses.
nor am i ashamed of the feelings i related.
it was not all settled before monday: as soon as it was, the express was sent off to longbourn.
but i will not torment you with vain wishes, which may seem purposely to ask for your thanks.
hurst and miss bingley both cried out against the injustice of her implied doubt, and were both protesting that they knew many women who answered this description, when mr.
she complained bitterly of all this to her husband.
how should you have liked making sermons?
from the entrance hall, of which mr.
bennet could not have chosen better.
my dear aunt, this is being serious indeed.
her coming there was the most unfortunate, the most ill-judged thing in the world!
i do not like to boast of my own child; but to be sure, jane one does not often see anybody better looking.
o that he had sprained his ancle in the first dance!
there is, i believe, in every disposition a tendency to some particular evil, a natural defect, which not even the best education can overcome.
you have insulted me, in every possible method.
miss lucas perceived him from an upper window as he walked towards the house, and instantly set out to meet him accidentally in the lane.
lady catherine seemed quite astonished at not receiving a direct answer; and elizabeth suspected herself to be the first creature who had ever dared to trifle with so much dignified impertinence.
when the engagement was for home, some of the officers always made part of it, of which officers mr.
nor did that day wear out her resentment.
i cannot acquit him of that duty; nor could i think well of the man who should omit an occasion of testifying his respect towards anybody connected with the family.
the attention of the younger ones was then no longer to be gained by him.
i shall not be able to keep you and so i warn you.
collins took his station between his cousin elizabeth and mrs.
she was very equal, therefore, to address mr.
bingley she had likewise seen for an instant, and in that short period saw him looking both pleased and embarrassed.
lady catherine was a tall, large woman, with strongly-marked features, which might once have been handsome.
she had never heard of his having had any relations, except a father and mother, both of whom had been dead many years.
i beg your pardon, replied miss bingley, turning away with a sneer.
she was not equal, however, to much conversation; and when miss bingley left them together, could attempt little beside expressions of gratitude for the extraordinary kindness she was treated with.
darcy give you his reasons for this interference?
gardiner, who was not a great walker, could go no farther, and thought only of returning to the carriage as quickly as possible.
what a fine thing for our girls!
after watching her a little, fitzwilliam asked her why she was so thoughtful.
but the clothes, the wedding clothes!
collins returned into hertfordshire soon after it had been quitted by the gardiners and jane; but, as he took up his abode with the lucases, his arrival was no great inconvenience to mrs.
bennet was not in the habit of walking, mary could never spare time, but the remaining five set off together.
mary s powers were by no means fitted for such a display; her voice was weak, and her manner affected.
that it would be done with such trifling exertion on his side, too, was another very welcome surprise; for his chief wish at present was to have as little trouble in the business as possible.
kitty owned that she had rather stay at home.
there is one point on which i want your advice.
his name had never been voluntarily mentioned before them by her niece; and the kind of half-expectation which mrs.
were it for nothing but his love of you, i must always have esteemed him; but now, as bingley s friend and your husband, there can be only bingley and yourself more dear to me.
it is on your account that he has been so frequently invited this week.
have you not heard me say, that from his earliest hours he was destined for his cousin?
as they went down stairs together, charlotte said, i shall depend on hearing from you very often, eliza.
hill, in great astonishment, don t you know there is an express come for master from mr.
bingley and jane, however, soon allowed the others to outstrip them.
jane and elizabeth looked at each other, and the waiter was told that he need not stay.
but to be candid without ostentation or design, to take the good of everybody s character and make it still better, and say nothing of the bad, belongs to you alone.
bennet, to walk to oakham mount this morning.
mamma would like to go, too, of all things!
bennet soon assured her that he was rising every hour in his esteem.
you are dancing with the only handsome girl in the room, said mr.
i do not believe a word of it, my dear.
bennet; and, as he spoke, he left the room, fatigued with the raptures of his wife.
wickham, who had returned with him the day before from town, and, he was happy to say, had accepted a commission in their corps.
gardiner s house, where they were to remain a few days.
but he is, beyond all comparison, the most agreeable man i ever saw and if he becomes really attached to me i believe it will be better that he should not.
nothing was to be done that he did not do himself; though i am sure (and i do not speak it to be thanked, therefore say nothing about it) your uncle would most readily have settled the whole.
i must not, however, neglect the duties of my station, or refrain from declaring my amazement, at hearing that you received the young couple into your house as soon as they were married.
yes, and i hope to engage you to be serious likewise.
darcy, she moved again towards the gate.
i flatter myself, at least, that you will be able to do so.